 UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 OR [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period from ________ to ________ Commission File Number: 000-31225 Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (615) 744-3700 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act: Title of Each Class Name of Exchange on which Registered Common Stock, par value $1.00 Nasdaq Global Select Market Securities registered to Section 12(g) of the Act: None Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes [X] No [ ] Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes [ ] No [X] Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ] Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes [X] No [ ] Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ] Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of "accelerated filer," "large accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): Large Accelerated Filer [X] Accelerated Filer [ ] Non-accelerated Filer [ ] (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller Reporting Company [ ] Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes [ ] No [X] State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity as of the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter: $1,313,162,875 as of June 30, 2014. APPLICABLE ONLY TO CORPORATE REGISTRANTS Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date: 35,809,746 shares of common stock as of February 18, 2015. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders, scheduled to be held April 21, 2015, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K. TABLE OF CONTENTS Page No. PART I 4 °Item 1. BUSINESS 4 °Item 1A. RISK FACTORS 17 °Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 28 °Item 2. PROPERTIES 28 °Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 28 °Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 28 PART II 29 °Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 29 °Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 30 °Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 31 °Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 61 °Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 62 °Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 122 °Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 122 °Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 122 PART III 123 °Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 123 °Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 123 °Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 123 °Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS, RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 123 °Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 123 °Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 124 SIGNATURES 127 2 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS Certain of the statements in this Annual Report on Form 10-K may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The words "expect," "anticipate," "goal," "objective," "intend," "plan," "believe," "should," "seek," "estimate" and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, but other statements not based on historical information may also be considered forward-looking. All forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause the actual results, performance or achievements of Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. (Pinnacle Financial) to differ materially from any results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such risks include, without limitation, (i) deterioration in the financial condition of borrowers resulting in significant increases in loan losses and provisions for those losses; (ii) continuation of the historically low short-term interest rate environment; (iii) the inability of Pinnacle Financial or companies in which Pinnacle Financial has significant investments to grow their loan portfolios at recent growth rates; (iv) changes in loan underwriting, credit review or loss reserve policies associated with economic conditions, examination conclusions, or regulatory developments; (v) effectiveness of Pinnacle Financial's asset management activities in improving, resolving or liquidating lower-quality assets; (vi) increased competition with other financial institutions; (vii) greater than anticipated adverse conditions in the national or local economies including the Nashville-Davidson-Murfreesboro-Franklin MSA and the Knoxville MSA, particularly in commercial and residential real estate markets; (viii) rapid fluctuations or unanticipated changes in interest rates on loans or deposits; (ix) the results of regulatory examinations; (x) the ability to retain large, uninsured deposits; (xi) the development of any new geographic market other than Nashville or Knoxville; (xii) a merger or acquisition; (xiii) risk of expansion into new geographic or product markets; (xiv) any matter that would cause Pinnacle Financial to conclude that there was impairment of any asset, including intangible assets; (xv) reduced ability to attract additional financial advisors (or failure of such advisors to cause their clients to switch to Pinnacle Financial) or otherwise to attract customers from other financial institutions; (xvi) further deterioration in the valuation of other real estate owned and increased expenses associated therewith; (xvii) inability to comply with regulatory capital requirements, including those resulting from changes to capital calculation methodologies and required capital maintenance levels; (xviii) risks associated with litigation, including the applicability of insurance coverage; (xix) approval of the declaration of any dividend by Pinnacle Financial's board of directors, (xx) the vulnerability of our network and online banking portals to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, spam attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss and other security breaches, (xxi) the possibility of increased compliance costs as a result of increased regulatory oversight, including oversight of companies in which Pinnacle has significant investments, and the development of additional banking products for our corporate and consumer clients, and (xxii) changes in state and federal legislation, regulations or policies applicable to banks and other financial service providers, including regulatory or legislative developments arising out of current unsettled conditions in the economy, including implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. A more detailed description of these and other risks is contained in "Item 1A. Risk Factors" below. Many of such factors are beyond Pinnacle Financial's ability to control or predict, and readers are cautioned not to put undue reliance on such forward-looking statements. Pinnacle Financial disclaims any obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements contained in this release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. 3 PART I Unless this Form 10-K indicates otherwise or the context otherwise requires, the terms "we," "our," "us," "the firm," "Pinnacle Financial Partners," "Pinnacle" or "Pinnacle Financial" as used herein refer to Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc., and its subsidiaries, including Pinnacle Bank, which we sometimes refer to as "our bank subsidiary" or "our bank" and its other subsidiaries. References herein to the fiscal years 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014 mean our fiscal years ended December 31, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014, respectively. °Item 1. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Pinnacle Financial is the second-largest bank holding company headquartered in Tennessee, with $6.02 billion in assets as of December 31, 2014. Incorporated on February 28, 2000, the holding company is the parent company of Pinnacle Bank and owns 100% of the capital stock of Pinnacle Bank. The firm started operations on October 27, 2000, in Nashville, Tennessee, and has since grown to 34 offices, including 29 in eight Middle Tennessee counties. The firm also has five offices in Knoxville, Tennessee, the state's third-largest banking market. Prior to September 4, 2012, when it converted from a national bank to a state bank, Pinnacle Bank was known as Pinnacle National Bank. The firm operates as a community bank primarily in the urban markets of Nashville and Knoxville, Tennessee. As an urban community bank, Pinnacle Financial provides the personalized service most often associated with small community banks, while seeking to offer the sophisticated products and services, such as investments and treasury management, more typically offered by large regional and national banks. This approach has enabled Pinnacle Financial to attract clients from the regional and national banks in the Nashville and Knoxville MSAs. As a result, Pinnacle has grown to the fourth largest market share in the Nashville MSA and to the sixth largest market share in the Knoxville MSA, based on 2014 FDIC Summary of Deposits data including the impact of any mergers and acquisitions. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Lending Services We offer a full range of lending products, including commercial, real estate and consumer loans to individuals and small-to medium-sized businesses and professional entities. We compete for these loans with competitors who are also well established in the Nashville and Knoxville MSAs. Pinnacle Bank's loan approval policies provide for various levels of officer lending authority. When the total amount of loans to a single borrower exceeds an individual officer's lending authority, officers with higher lending authority determine whether to approve any new loan requests or renewals of existing loans. Loans to insiders require approval of the board, and, certain extensions of credit, including loans above certain amounts and certain adversely classified loans, require approval of a committee of the board. In February 2015, Pinnacle Bank acquired a 30% membership interest in Bankers Healthcare Group, LLC (BHG), a company which makes term loans to healthcare professionals and practices, for $75 million in cash. Pinnacle Bank will have one of four seats on BHG's board of managers, will account for the investment using the equity method, and its interest in BHG's net income will be reflected in Pinnacle Financial's noninterest income. Pinnacle Bank's lending activities are subject to a variety of lending limits imposed by federal and state law. Differing limits apply based on the type of loan or the nature of the borrower, including the borrower's relationship to Pinnacle Bank. In general, however, at December 31, 2014, we were able to loan any one borrower a maximum amount equal to approximately $88.9 million plus an additional $59.2 million, or a total of approximately $148.1 million, for loans that meet certain additional collateral guidelines. These legal limits will increase or decrease as Pinnacle Bank's capital increases or decreases as a result of its earnings or losses, the injection of additional capital, payments of dividends, or for other reasons. Pinnacle Bank's internal loan limit of $30 million is less than the legal lending limit, and Pinnacle Bank currently has three relationships in excess of its internal loan limit. These relationships range from $34.0 million to $40.0 million and were each approved by the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. 4 The principal economic risk associated with each category of loans that Pinnacle Bank expects to make is the creditworthiness of the borrower. General economic factors affecting a commercial or consumer borrower's ability to repay include interest, inflation and unemployment rates, as well as other factors affecting a borrower's assets, clients, suppliers and employees. Many of Pinnacle Bank's commercial loans are made to small- to medium-sized businesses that are sometimes less able to withstand competitive, economic and financial pressures than larger borrowers. During periods of economic weakness these businesses may be more adversely affected than other enterprises and may cause increased levels of nonaccrual or other problem loans, loan charge-offs and higher provision for loan losses. Pinnacle Bank's commercial clients borrow for a variety of purposes. The terms of these loans (which include equipment loans and working capital loans) will vary by purpose and by type of any underlying collateral. Commercial loans may be unsecured or secured by accounts receivable or by other business assets. Pinnacle Bank also makes a variety of commercial real estate loans, including both investment properties and business loans secured by real estate. Pinnacle Bank also makes a variety of loans to individuals for personal, family, investment and household purposes, including secured and unsecured installment and term loans, residential first mortgage loans, home equity loans, home equity lines of credit and credit card loans. Deposit Services Pinnacle Bank seeks to establish a broad base of core deposits, including savings, checking, interest-bearing checking, money market and certificate of deposit accounts. To attract deposits, Pinnacle Bank has employed a marketing plan in its overall service areas primarily based on relationship banking and features a broad product line and competitive rates and services. The primary sources of deposits are individuals and businesses located in the Nashville and Knoxville MSAs. Pinnacle Bank traditionally has obtained these deposits primarily through personal solicitation by its officers and directors, although its use of media advertising has increased in recent years due to its advertising and banking sponsorship with the Tennessee Titans NFL football team. Pinnacle Bank also offers its targeted commercial clients a comprehensive array of treasury management services as well as remote deposit services, which allow electronic deposits to be made from the client's place of business. Investment, Trust and Insurance Services Pinnacle Bank contracts with Raymond James Financial Services, Inc. (RJFS), a registered broker-dealer and investment adviser, to offer and sell various securities and other financial products to the public from Pinnacle Bank's locations through Pinnacle Bank employees that are also RJFS employees. RJFS is a subsidiary of Raymond James Financial, Inc. Pinnacle Bank offers, through RJFS, non-FDIC insured investment products in order to assist Pinnacle Bank's clients in achieving their financial objectives consistent with their risk tolerances. All of the financial products are offered by RJFS from Pinnacle Bank's main office and its other offices. Additionally, we believe that the brokerage and investment advisory program offered by RJFS complements Pinnacle Bank's general banking business, and further supports its business philosophy and strategy of delivering to our clients those products and services that meet their financial needs. Pursuant to its contract with us, RJFS is primarily responsible for the compliance monitoring of dual employees of RJFS and Pinnacle Bank. Additionally, Pinnacle Bank has developed its own compliance-monitoring program in an effort to further ensure that Pinnacle Bank personnel deliver these products in a manner consistent with the various regulations governing such activities. Pinnacle Bank receives a percentage of commission credits and fees generated by the program. Pinnacle Bank remains responsible for various expenses associated with the program, including promotional expenses, furnishings and equipment expenses and general personnel costs including commissions paid to licensed brokers. Pinnacle Bank also maintains a trust department which provides fiduciary and investment management services for individual and commercial clients. Account types include personal trust, endowments, foundations, individual retirement accounts, pensions and custody. Pinnacle Advisory Services, Inc., a registered investment advisor, provides investment advisory services to its clients. Additionally, Miller Loughry Beach Insurance Services, Inc., an insurance agency subsidiary of Pinnacle Bank, provides insurance products, particularly in the property and casualty area, to its clients. 5 Capital Markets In December 2014, Pinnacle Financial announced that it was entering the capital markets business with the hiring of a new senior officer to lead Pinnacle Bank's PNFP Capital Markets subsidiary. PNFP Capital Markets employees are expected to partner with Pinnacle Bank's financial advisors to offer corporate clients merger acquisition advisory services, private debt, equity and mezzanine, interest rate derivatives and other selected middle-market advisory services. Other Banking Services Given client demand for increased convenience in accessing banking and investment services, Pinnacle Bank also offers a broad array of convenience-centered products and services, including 24-hour telephone and internet banking, mobile banking, debit and credit cards, direct deposit, remote deposit and cash management services for small- to medium-sized businesses. Additionally, Pinnacle Bank is associated with a nationwide network of automated teller machines of other financial institutions that our clients are able to use throughout Tennessee and other regions. In many cases, Pinnacle Bank, in contrast to many of its regional competitors, reimburses its clients for any fees that may be charged to the client for utilizing the nationwide ATM network, providing greater convenience as compared to these competitors. Competitive Conditions The Nashville MSA banking market is very competitive, with 65 financial institutions with over $44.1 billion in deposits in the market as of June 30, 2014, up from approximately $40.8 billion at June 30, 2013 according to FDIC data. As of June 30, 2000, approximately 62.8% of this deposit base was controlled by three large, multi-state banks headquartered outside of Nashville, consisting of the following: Regions Financial (headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama), Bank of America (headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina), and SunTrust (headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia). According to FDIC deposit information, the collective market share of deposits in the Nashville MSA of Regions Financial (including the acquired Union Planters National Bank and AmSouth Bank), Bank of America, and SunTrust (including the acquired National Bank of Commerce) declined from approximately 62.8% to 43.1% between June 30, 2000 and June 30, 2014. Pinnacle Bank, on the other hand, after fourteen years of operations, holds the No. 4 market share position in the Nashville MSA at June 30, 2014 with 9.4% of the market, immediately behind the top three out-of-state banks. The Knoxville MSA banking market is also very competitive, with 51 financial institutions with over $14.7 billion in deposits in the market as of June 30, 2014 up from $14.5 billion at June 30, 2013. As of June 30, 2007, approximately 53.2% of this deposit base was controlled by three large, multi-state banks headquartered outside of Knoxville, consisting of the following: First Horizon (headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee), SunTrust, and Regions Financial. According to FDIC deposit information, the collective market share of deposits in the Knoxville MSA of First Horizon, SunTrust, and Regions Financial declined from 53.2% to 49.0% between June 30, 2007 and June 30, 2014. The decline in market share for the top three competitors since June 30, 2007 has occurred since Pinnacle Bank established a presence in the Knoxville MSA in 2007. At June 30, 2014, Pinnacle Bank had approximately 3.5% of the market share in the Knoxville MSA. We believe that the most important criteria to our bank's targeted clients when selecting a bank is their desire to receive exceptional and personal customer service while being able to enjoy convenient access to a broad array of sophisticated financial products. Additionally, when presented with a choice, we believe that many of our bank's targeted clients would prefer to deal with a locally-owned institution headquartered in Tennessee, like Pinnacle Bank, as opposed to a large, multi-state bank, where many important decisions regarding a client's financial affairs are made elsewhere. Employees As of February 15, 2015, we employed 766.5 full-time equivalent associates. We believe these associates are Pinnacle's most important asset and consider our relationship with our associates to be excellent. This is supported by the fact that consulting firm, Great Place to Work, recognized us as one of the best workplaces in the United States on its 2014 Best Small Medium Workplaces list published in FORTUNE magazine. The selection is based on an anonymously conducted survey of associates. Additionally, the American Banker also recognized Pinnacle Bank as the best bank to work for in 2013 and the second best bank to work for in 2014. 6 OTHER INFORMATION Investment Securities In addition to loans, Pinnacle Bank has investments primarily in United States agency securities, mortgage-backed securities, and state and municipal securities. No investment in any of those instruments exceeds any applicable limitation imposed by law or regulation. The executive committee of the board of directors reviews the investment portfolio on an ongoing basis in order to ensure that the investments conform to Pinnacle Bank's asset liability management policy as set by the board of directors. Asset and Liability Management Our Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO), composed of senior managers of Pinnacle Bank, manages Pinnacle Bank's assets and liabilities and strives to provide a stable, optimized net interest income and margin, adequate liquidity and ultimately a suitable after-tax return on assets and return on equity. ALCO conducts these management functions within the framework of written policies that Pinnacle Bank's board of directors has adopted. ALCO works to maintain an acceptable position between rate sensitive assets and rate sensitive liabilities. The executive committee of the board of directors oversees the ALCO function on an ongoing basis. Available Information We file reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and current reports on Form 8-K. The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. We are an electronic filer, and the SEC maintains an Internet site at www.sec.gov that contains the reports, proxy and information statements, and other information we have filed electronically. Our website address is www.pnfp.com. Please note that our website address is provided as an inactive textual reference only. We make available free of charge through our website, the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. The information provided on our website is not part of this report, and is therefore not incorporated by reference unless such information is otherwise specifically referenced elsewhere in this report. We have also posted our Corporate Governance Guidelines, Corporate Code of Conduct for directors, officers and employees, and the charters of our Audit Committee, Human Resources and Compensation Committee, and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our board of directors on the Corporate Governance section of our website at www.pnfp.com. We will make any legally required disclosures regarding amendments to, or waivers of, provisions of our Corporate Code of Conduct, Corporate Governance Guidelines or current committee charters on our website. Our corporate governance materials are available free of charge upon request to our Corporate Secretary, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc., 150 Third Avenue South, Suite 900, Nashville, Tennessee 37201. SUPERVISION AND REGULATION Both Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank are subject to extensive state and federal banking laws and regulations that impose restrictions on and provide for general regulatory oversight of Pinnacle Financial's and Pinnacle Bank's operations. These laws and regulations are generally intended to protect depositors and borrowers, not stockholders. Pinnacle Financial Pinnacle Financial is a bank holding company under the federal Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. As a result, it is subject to the supervision, examination, and reporting requirements of the Bank Holding Company Act and the regulations of the Federal Reserve. 7 Acquisition of Banks . The Bank Holding Company Act requires every bank holding company to obtain the Federal Reserve's prior approval before: Acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if, after the acquisition, the bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control more than 5% of the bank's voting shares; Acquiring all or substantially all of the assets of any bank; or Merging or consolidating with any other bank holding company. Additionally, the Bank Holding Company Act provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any of these transactions if it would substantially lessen competition or otherwise function as a restraint of trade, or result in or tend to create a monopoly, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned; the effectiveness of the company in combating money laundering; the convenience and needs of the communities to be served; and the extent to which the proposal would result in greater or more concentrated risk to the United States banking or financial system. Under the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended by the Dodd-Frank Act, if well-capitalized and well-managed, a bank holding company located in Tennessee may purchase a bank located outside of Tennessee. Conversely, a well-capitalized and well-managed bank holding company located outside of Tennessee may purchase a bank located inside Tennessee. In each case, however, state law restrictions may be placed on the acquisition of a bank that has only been in existence for a limited amount of time or will result in specified concentrations of deposits. For example, Tennessee law currently prohibits a bank holding company from acquiring control of a Tennessee-based financial institution until the target financial institution has been in operation for three years. Change in Bank Control. Subject to various exceptions, the Bank Holding Company Act and the Federal Change in Bank Control Act, together with related regulations, require Federal Reserve approval prior to any person or company acquiring "control" of a bank holding company. Control is conclusively presumed to exist if an individual or company acquires 25% or more of any class of voting securities of the bank holding company. Control is refutably presumed to exist if a person or company acquires 10% or more, but less than 25%, of any class of voting securities and either: The bank holding company has registered securities under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; or No other person owns a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the transaction. Pinnacle Financial's common stock is registered under Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The regulations provide a procedure for challenge of the rebuttable control presumption. Permitted Activities. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 amended the Bank Holding Company Act and expanded the activities in which bank holding companies and affiliates of banks are permitted to engage. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act eliminated many federal and state law barriers to affiliations among banks and securities firms, insurance companies, and other financial service providers. Generally, if Pinnacle Financial qualifies and elects to become a financial holding company, which is described below, Pinnacle Financial may engage in activities that are: Financial in nature; Incidental to a financial activity (as determined by the Federal Reserve in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury); or Complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a substantial risk to the safety or soundness of depository institutions or the financial system generally (as determined by the Federal Reserve). 8 The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act expressly lists the following activities as financial in nature: Lending, trust and other banking activities; Insuring, guaranteeing, or indemnifying against loss or harm, or providing and issuing annuities, and acting as principal, agent, or broker for these purposes, in any state; Providing financial, investment, or advisory services; Issuing or selling instruments representing interests in pools of assets permissible for a bank to hold directly; Underwriting, dealing in or making a market in securities; Activities that the Federal Reserve has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident to banking or managing or controlling banks; Activities permitted outside of the United States that the Federal Reserve has determined to be usual in connection with banking or other financial operations abroad; Merchant banking through securities or insurance affiliates; and Insurance company portfolio investments. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also authorizes the Federal Reserve, in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury, to determine activities in addition to those listed above that are financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity. In determining whether a particular activity is financial in nature or incidental or complementary to a financial activity, the Federal Reserve must consider (1) the purpose of the Bank Holding Company Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, (2) changes or reasonably expected changes in the marketplace in which financial holding companies compete and in the technology for delivering financial services, and (3) whether the activity is necessary or appropriate to allow financial holding companies to effectively compete with other financial service providers and to efficiently deliver information and services. Pinnacle Financial has not elected to become a financial holding company as of the date of this report. Under the Bank Holding Company Act, a bank holding company, which has not qualified or elected to become a financial holding company, is generally prohibited from engaging in or acquiring direct or indirect control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any company engaged in nonbanking activities unless, prior to the enactment of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Federal Reserve found those activities to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident to the business of banking. Activities that the Federal Reserve has found to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident to the business of banking include: Factoring accounts receivable; Acquiring or servicing loans; Leasing personal property; Conducting discount securities brokerage activities; Performing selected data processing services; Acting as agent or broker in selling credit life insurance and other types of insurance in connection with credit transactions; and Underwriting certain insurance risks of the holding company and its subsidiaries. 9 Despite prior approval, the Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any of these activities or to terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary when it has reasonable cause to believe that the bank holding company's continued ownership, activity or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of any of its bank subsidiaries. Support of Subsidiary Institutions . Under the Dodd-Frank Act, and previously under Federal Reserve policy, Pinnacle Financial is required to act as a source of financial strength for its bank subsidiary, Pinnacle Bank, and to commit resources to support Pinnacle Bank. This support can be required at times when it would not be in the best interest of Pinnacle Financial's stockholders or creditors to provide it. In the event of Pinnacle Financial's bankruptcy, any commitment by it to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of Pinnacle Bank would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. Pinnacle Bank Pinnacle Financial owns one bank - Pinnacle Bank. Pinnacle Bank is a state bank chartered under the laws of the State of Tennessee that is not a member of the Federal Reserve. As a result, it is subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements and the regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions (TDFI). The TDFI has the authority to approve or disapprove mergers, the establishment of branches and similar corporate actions. The TDFI regularly examines state banks like Pinnacle Bank and in connection with its examinations may identify matters necessary to improve a bank's operation in accordance with principles of safety and soundness. Any matters identified in such examinations are required to be appropriately addressed by the bank. Pinnacle Bank is also subject to numerous state and federal statutes and regulations that will affect its business, activities and operations. Branching . While the TDFI has authority to approve branch applications, state banks are required by the State of Tennessee to adhere to branching laws applicable to state chartered banks in the states in which they are located. With prior regulatory approval, Tennessee law permits banks based in the state to either establish new or acquire existing branch offices throughout Tennessee. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, Pinnacle Bank and any other national or state-chartered bank generally may branch across state lines to the same extent as banks chartered in the state of the branch. FDIC Insurance. Deposits in Pinnacle Bank are insured by the FDIC subject to applicable limitations. To offset the cost of this issuance, the FDIC has adopted a risk-based assessment system for insured depository institutions that takes into account the risks attributable to different categories and concentrations of assets and liabilities. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC has adopted regulations that base deposit insurance assessments on total assets less capital rather than deposit liabilities and include off-balance sheet liabilities of institutions and their affiliates in risk-based assessments. The Dodd-Frank Act increased the basic limit on federal deposit insurance coverage to $250,000 per depositor. The Dodd-Frank Act also repealed the prohibition on paying interest on demand transaction accounts. The FDIC may terminate its insurance of an institution's deposits if it finds that the institution has engaged in unsafe and unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations, or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. Capital Adequacy The Federal Reserve has established a risk-based and a leverage measure of capital adequacy for bank holding companies. Pinnacle Bank is also subject to risk-based and leverage capital requirements adopted by the FDIC, which are substantially similar to those adopted by the Federal Reserve for bank holding companies. The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profiles among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance-sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance-sheet items, such as letters of credit and unfunded loan commitments, are assigned to broad risk categories, each with appropriate risk weights. The resulting capital ratios represent capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance-sheet items. Tennessee state banks are required to have the capital structure that the TDFI deems adequate, and the Commissioner of the TDFI may require a state bank to increase its capital structure to the point deemed adequate by the Commissioner before granting approval of a branch application or charter amendment. 10 Under Federal Reserve guidelines for bank holding companies applicable prior to January 1, 2015, the minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets was 8%. Total capital consisted of two components, Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital generally consists of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings, minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, and a limited amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock and related surplus, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets. The trust preferred securities previously issued by Pinnacle Financial qualified as Tier 1 capital, and as described below will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital under the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III. Under Federal Reserve guidelines applicable prior to January 1, 2015, Tier 1 capital must equal at least 4% of risk-weighted assets. Tier 2 capital generally consists of subordinated debt, other preferred stock, and a limited amount of loan loss reserves. The total amount of Tier 2 capital is limited to 100% of Tier 1 capital. For a holding company to be considered "well-capitalized," it was required to maintain a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6% and not be subject to a written agreement, order or directive to maintain a specific capital level. In addition, the Federal Reserve established minimum leverage ratio guidelines for bank holding companies that were applicable prior to January 1, 2015. These guidelines provided that a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets, of at least 4% should be maintained for most bank holding companies. The guidelines also provided that bank holding companies experiencing high internal growth or making acquisitions will be expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels. Furthermore, the Federal Reserve indicated that it will consider a bank holding company's Tier 1 capital leverage ratio, after deducting all intangibles, and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activities. The Dodd-Frank Act contained a number of provisions dealing with capital adequacy of insured depository institutions and their holding companies, and for the most part these provisions have resulted in insured depository institutions and their holding companies being subject to more stringent capital requirements. Under the so-called Collins Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, federal regulators have established minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for, among other entities, banks and bank holding companies on a consolidated basis. These minimum requirements require that a bank holding company maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of not less than 4% and a total risk-based capital ratio of not less than 8%. The Collins Amendment also excludes trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010 from being included in Tier 1 capital unless the issuing company is a bank holding company with less than $500 million in total assets. Trust preferred securities issued prior to that date will continue to count as Tier 1 capital for bank holding companies with less than $15 billion in total assets, and such securities will be phased out of Tier 1 capital treatment for bank holding companies with over $15 billion in total assets as of May 9, 2010 over a three-year period beginning in 2013. Pinnacle Financial's trust preferred securities will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC approved final rules that substantially amend the regulatory capital rules applicable to Pinnacle Bank and Pinnacle Financial, effective January 1, 2015. The final rules implement the regulatory capital reforms of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision reflected in "Basel III: A Global Regulatory Framework for More Resilient Banks and Banking Systems" (Basel III) and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under these rules, the leverage and risk-based capital ratios of bank holding companies may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The final rules implementing the Basel III regulatory capital reforms became effective as to Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank on January 1, 2015, and include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios. Moreover, these rules refine the definition of what constitutes "capital" for purposes of calculating those ratios, including the definitions of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to bank holding companies and banks subject to the rules are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The rules also establish a "capital conservation buffer" of 2.5% (to be phased in over three years) above the new regulatory minimum risk-based capital ratios, and result in the following minimum ratios once the capital conservation buffer is fully phased in: (i) a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 7%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. The capital conservation buffer requirement is to be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if capital levels fall below minimum plus the buffer amounts. These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. 11 Under these new rules, Tier 1 capital generally consists of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings, limited amounts of minority interest in the form of additional Tier 1 capital instruments, and non-cumulative preferred stock and related surplus, subject to certain eligibility standards, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions. Cumulative preferred stock and trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010, will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital, but such securities issued prior to May 19, 2010, including in the case of bank holding companies with less than $15.0 billion in total assets on December 31, 2009, trust preferred securities issued prior to that date, will continue to count as Tier 1 capital subject to certain limitations. The definition of Tier 2 capital is generally unchanged for most banking organizations, subject to certain new eligibility criteria. Common equity Tier 1 capital will generally consist of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings plus limited amounts of minority interest in the form of common stock, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions, including a portion of Pinnacle Bank's recorded investment in BHG (which as a minority interest in an unconsolidated financial institution is subject to specified deductions). The final rules allow banks and their holding companies with less than $250 billion in assets a one-time opportunity to opt-out of a requirement to include unrealized gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income in their capital calculation. Pinnacle Financial expects that it will opt-out of this requirement. The Federal Reserve has adopted regulations applicable to bank holding companies with assets over $10 billion that require such holding companies and banks to conduct annual stress tests and report the results to the applicable regulators and publicly disclose a summary of certain capital information and results including pro forma changes in regulatory capital ratios. For such companies, the board of directors and senior management is required to consider the results of the stress test in the normal course of business, including but not limited to capital planning and an assessment of capital adequacy in accordance with management's policies. Failure to meet statutorily mandated capital requirements or more restrictive ratios separately established for a financial institution by its regulators could subject a bank or bank holding company to a variety of enforcement remedies, including issuance of a capital directive, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, a prohibition on accepting or renewing brokered deposits, limitations on the rates of interest that the institution may pay on its deposits and other restrictions on its business. Additionally, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 establishes a system of prompt corrective action to resolve the problems of undercapitalized financial institutions. Under this system, the federal banking regulators have established five capital categories (well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized) into one of which all institutions are placed. Federal banking regulators are required to take various mandatory supervisory actions and are authorized to take other discretionary actions with respect to institutions in the three undercapitalized categories. The severity of the action depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the banking regulator must appoint a receiver or conservator within a specified period for an institution that is critically undercapitalized. The federal banking agencies have specified by regulation the relevant capital level for each category. Under FDIC regulations effective January 1, 2015, a state regulated bank which is not a member of the Federal Reserve (a state nonmember bank) is "well capitalized" if it has a leverage capital ratio of 5% or better, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8% or better (up from 6.0% under previous regulations), a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5%, or better, a total risk based capital ratio of 10% or better, and is not subject to a regulatory agreement, order or directive to maintain a specific level for any capital measure. A state nonmember bank is considered "adequately capitalized" if it has a leverage ratio of at least 4%, a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%, or better, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6.0%, a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8.0% and does not meet the definition of a well-capitalized bank. Lower levels of capital result in a bank being considered undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. State nonmember banks are required to be "well capitalized" in order to take advantage of expedited procedures on certain applications, such as branches and mergers, and to accept and renew brokered deposits without further regulatory approval. 12 Federal banking regulators are required to take various mandatory supervisory actions and are authorized to take other discretionary actions with respect to institutions in the three undercapitalized categories. The severity of the action depends upon the capital category in which the institution is placed. Generally, subject to a narrow exception, the banking regulator must appoint a receiver or conservator for an institution that is critically undercapitalized (a ratio of tangible equity to total assets equal to or less than 2.0%). The federal banking agencies have specified by regulation the relevant capital level for each category. An institution that is categorized as undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized, or critically undercapitalized is required to submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to its appropriate federal banking agency. In addition, a bank holding company must guarantee that a subsidiary depository institution meets its capital restoration plan, subject to various limitations. The controlling holding company's obligation to fund a capital restoration plan is limited to the lesser of 5% of an undercapitalized subsidiary's assets or the amount required to meet regulatory capital requirements. An undercapitalized institution is also generally prohibited from increasing its average total assets, making acquisitions, establishing any branches or engaging in any new line of business, except under an accepted capital restoration plan or with FDIC approval. The regulations also establish procedures for downgrading an institution into a lower capital category based on supervisory factors other than capital. As of December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Bank is considered "well-capitalized". At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Bank's common equity Tier 1 capital ratio (calculated under the Basel III regulations) was 10.8%, its Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 11.4%, its total risk-based capital ratio was 12.6% and its leverage ratio was 10.6%, compared to 11.3%, 11.3%, 12.6% and 10.5% at December 31, 2013, respectively. At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial's common equity tier 1 capital ratio was 10.1%, its tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 12.1%, its total risk-based capital ratio was 13.4% and its leverage ratio was 11.3%, compared to 10.1% 11.8%, 13.0% and 10.9% at December 31, 2013, respectively. All ratios above are in excess of regulatory requirements. More information concerning Pinnacle Financial's, and Pinnacle Bank's, regulatory ratios at December 31, 2014 is included in Note 21 to the "Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements" included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Payment of Dividends Pinnacle Financial is a legal entity separate and distinct from Pinnacle Bank. The principal source of Pinnacle Financial's cash flow, including cash flow to pay interest to its holders of subordinated debentures, and any dividends payable to common stockholders, are dividends that Pinnacle Bank pays to Pinnacle Financial as its sole stockholder. Under Tennessee law, Pinnacle Financial is not permitted to pay dividends if, after giving effect to such payment, it would not be able to pay its debts as they become due in the usual course of business or its total assets would be less than the sum of its total liabilities plus any amounts needed to satisfy any preferential rights if it were dissolving. In addition, in deciding whether or not to declare a dividend of any particular size, Pinnacle Financial's board of directors must consider its and Pinnacle Bank's current and prospective capital, liquidity, and other needs. In addition to state law limitations on Pinnacle Financial's ability to pay dividends, commencing January 1, 2016, the Federal Reserve's capital rules impose limitations on Pinnacle Financial's ability to pay dividends if its capital conservation buffer (which is generally the amount by which its capital ratios exceed the minimum requirement for such ratio) is less than 2.5%. The limitations are phased in over three years commencing January 1, 2016. In addition to limiting dividends these restrictions also limit share repurchases and the paying of discretionary bonuses if capital levels fall below minimums plus the buffer amounts, and also limit the percentage of eligible retained income that can be utilized for those purposes. Statutory and regulatory limitations also apply to Pinnacle Bank's payment of dividends to Pinnacle Financial. Pinnacle Bank is required by Tennessee law to obtain the prior approval of the Commissioner of the TDFI for payments of dividends if the total of all dividends declared by its board of directors in any calendar year will exceed (1) the total of Pinnacle Bank's net income for that year, plus (2) Pinnacle Bank's retained net income for the preceding two years. As of December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Bank could pay dividends to us of up to $116.5 million. Generally, federal regulatory policy encourages holding company debt to be serviced by subsidiary bank dividends or additional equity rather than debt issuances. Pinnacle Financial currently has available cash balances which amounted to approximately $36.5 million at December 31, 2014. 13 The payment of dividends by Pinnacle Bank and Pinnacle Financial may also be affected by other factors, such as the requirement to maintain adequate capital above statutorily mandated guidelines, or more restrictive requirements imposed on Pinnacle Bank or Pinnacle Financial by their regulators. The federal banking agencies have indicated that paying dividends that deplete a depository institution's capital base to an inadequate level would be an unsafe and unsound banking practice. Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991, a depository institution may not pay any dividend if payment would cause it to become undercapitalized or if it already is undercapitalized. Moreover, the federal agencies have issued policy statements that provide that bank holding companies and insured depository institutions should generally only pay dividends out of current operating earnings. See "Capital Adequacy" above. During the fourth quarter of 2013, Pinnacle Financial Partners initiated a quarterly common stock dividend in the amount of $0.08 per share. During the year ended December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial Partners paid $14.2 million in dividends to common shareholders. On January 20, 2015, Pinnacle Financial Partner's Board of Directors declared a $0.12 per share dividend to be paid on February 27, 2015 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on February 6, 2015, an increase of $0.04 or 50% over the amount of the quarterly dividends paid in the fourth quarter of 2014. The amount and timing of any future dividend payments to common shareholders will be subject to the discretion of Pinnacle Financial Partners Board of Directors. Restrictions on Transactions with Affiliates Both Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank are subject to the provisions of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. Section 23A places limits on the amount of: A bank's loans or extensions of credit, including purchases of assets subject to an agreement to repurchase, to affiliates; A bank's investment in affiliates; Assets a bank may purchase from affiliates, except for real and personal property exempted by the Federal Reserve; The amount of loans or extensions of credit to third parties collateralized by the securities or obligations of affiliates; Transactions involving the borrowing or lending of securities and any derivative transaction that results in credit exposure to an affiliate; and A bank's guarantee, acceptance or letter of credit issued on behalf of an affiliate. The total amount of the above transactions is limited in amount, as to any one affiliate, to 10% of a bank's capital and surplus and, as to all affiliates combined, to 20% of a bank's capital and surplus. In addition to the limitation on the amount of these transactions, each of the above transactions must also meet specified collateral requirements. Pinnacle Bank must also comply with other provisions designed to avoid the taking of low-quality assets. Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank are also subject to the provisions of Section 23B of the Federal Reserve Act which, among other things, prohibits an institution from engaging in the above transactions with affiliates unless the transactions are on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution or its subsidiaries, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with nonaffiliated companies. Pinnacle Bank is also subject to restrictions on extensions of credit to its executive officers, directors, principal stockholders and their related interests. These extensions of credit (1) must be made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with third parties, and (2) must not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. Community Reinvestment The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) requires that, in connection with examinations of financial institutions within their respective jurisdictions, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC shall evaluate the record of each financial institution in meeting the credit needs of its local community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. These facts are also considered in evaluating mergers, acquisitions, and applications to open a branch or facility. Failure to adequately meet these criteria could impose additional requirements and limitations on Pinnacle Bank. Additionally, banks are required to publicly disclose the terms 14 of various Community Reinvestment Act-related agreements. Pinnacle Bank received an "outstanding" CRA rating from its primary federal regulator on its most recent regulatory examination. Privacy Under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, financial institutions are required to disclose their policies for collecting and protecting confidential information. Customers generally may prevent financial institutions from sharing personal financial information with nonaffiliated third parties except for third parties that market the institutions' own products and services. Additionally, financial institutions generally may not disclose consumer account numbers to any nonaffiliated third party for use in telemarketing, direct mail marketing or other marketing through electronic mail to consumers. Pinnacle Bank has established a privacy policy to ensure compliance with federal requirements. Other Consumer Laws and Regulations Interest and other charges collected or contracted for by Pinnacle Bank are subject to state usury laws and federal laws concerning interest rates. Pinnacle Bank's loan operations are also subject to federal laws applicable to credit transactions, such as the: Federal Truth-In-Lending Act, governing disclosures of credit terms to consumer borrowers; Home Mortgage Disclosure Act of 1975, requiring financial institutions to provide information to enable the public and public officials to determine whether a financial institution is fulfilling its obligation to help meet the housing needs of the community it serves; Equal Credit Opportunity Act, prohibiting discrimination on the basis of race, creed or other prohibited factors in extending credit; Fair Credit Reporting Act of 1978, governing the use and provision of information to credit reporting agencies; Fair Debt Collection Act, governing the manner in which consumer debts may be collected by collection agencies; Bank Secrecy Act, governing how banks and other firms report certain currency transactions and maintain appropriate safeguards against "money laundering" activities; Soldiers' and Sailors' Civil Relief Act of 1940, governing the repayment terms of, and property rights underlying, secured obligations of persons in active military service; and Rules and regulations of the various federal agencies charged with the responsibility of implementing the federal laws. Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, Congress has established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ("CFPB") which is responsible for implementing federal consumer protection laws. Banks under $10 billion in assets will not be separately examined by the CFPB for compliance with these new laws and regulations, but will be examined for compliance by their primary federal bank regulator. Pinnacle Bank's deposit operations are subject to the: Right to Financial Privacy Act, which imposes a duty to maintain confidentiality of consumer financial records and prescribes procedures for complying with administrative subpoenas of financial records; and Electronic Funds Transfer Act and Regulation E issued by the Federal Reserve to implement that act, which govern automatic deposits to and withdrawals from deposit accounts and customers' rights and liabilities (including with respect to the permissibility of overdraft charges) arising from the use of automated teller machines and other electronic banking services. 15 Anti-Terrorism Legislation On October 26, 2001, the President of the United States signed the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism (USA PATRIOT) Act of 2001. Under the USA PATRIOT Act, financial institutions are subject to prohibitions against specified financial transactions and account relationships as well as enhanced due diligence and "know your customer" standards in their dealings with clients and prospects including foreign financial institutions and foreign customers. In addition, the USA PATRIOT Act authorizes the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury to adopt rules increasing the cooperation and information sharing between financial institutions, regulators, and law enforcement authorities regarding individuals, entities and organizations engaged in, or reasonably suspected based on credible evidence of engaging in, terrorist acts or money laundering activities. Any financial institution complying with these rules will not be deemed to have violated the privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, as discussed above. Pinnacle Bank currently has policies and procedures in place designed to comply with the USA PATRIOT Act. Recent and Proposed Legislation and Regulatory Action New regulations and statutes are regularly proposed that contain wide-ranging proposals for altering the structures, regulations and competitive relationships of the nation's financial institutions. In 2010, the U.S. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank Act, which includes significant consumer protection provisions related to, among other things, residential mortgage loans that have increased, and are likely to further increase, our regulatory compliance costs. The ultimate impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our businesses and results of operations will depend on continued regulatory interpretation and rulemaking, as well as the success of any of our actions to mitigate the negative earnings impact of certain provisions. We cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed regulation or statute will be adopted or the extent to which our business may be affected by any new regulation or statute. With the enactments of the Dodd-Frank Act and the significant amount of regulations that have been issued over the last four years and that are to come from the passage of that legislation, the nature and extent of the future legislative and regulatory changes affecting financial institutions and the resulting impact on those institutions remains unpredictable at this time. Effect of Governmental Monetary Policies Our earnings are affected by domestic economic conditions and the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States government and its agencies. The Federal Reserve's monetary policies have had, and are likely to continue to have, an important impact on the operating results of commercial banks through the Federal Reserve's statutory power to implement national monetary policy in order, among other things, to curb inflation or combat a recession. The Federal Reserve, through its monetary and fiscal policies, affects the levels of bank loans, investments and deposits through its control over the issuance of United States government securities, its regulation of the discount rate applicable to member banks and its influence over reserve requirements to which member banks are subject. We cannot predict the nature or impact of future changes in monetary and fiscal policies. 16 °Item 1A. RISK FACTORS Investing in our common stock involves various risks which are particular to our company, our industry and our market area. If any of the following risks were to occur, we may not be able to conduct our business as currently planned and our financial condition or operating results could be materially and negatively impacted. These matters could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline in future periods. Negative developments in the U.S. and local economy and in local real estate markets have adversely impacted our results and may continue to adversely impact our results in the future. Economic conditions in the markets in which we operate deteriorated significantly between early 2008 and the middle of 2010. These challenges resulted primarily from provisions for loan losses and other real estate expense related to declining collateral values in our real estate loan portfolio and increased costs associated with our portfolio of other real estate owned. Although economic conditions appear to have stabilized in our markets in the more recent periods and we have refocused our efforts on growing our earning assets, we believe that we will continue to experience a slower growth economic environment in 2015. Accordingly, we expect that our results of operations could continue to be negatively impacted by economic conditions, including reduced loan demand, in 2015. There can be no assurance that the economic conditions that have adversely affected the financial services industry, and the capital, credit and real estate markets, generally, or us in particular, will improve materially, or at all, in the near future, or thereafter, in which case we could continue to experience reduced earnings or again experience significant losses and write-downs of assets, and could face capital and liquidity constraints or other business challenges. Fluctuations in interest rates could reduce our profitability. The absolute level of interest rates as well as changes in interest rates may affect our level of interest income, the primary component of our gross revenue, as well as the level of our interest expense. Interest rate fluctuations are caused by many factors which, for the most part, are not under our control. For example, national monetary policy plays a significant role in the determination of interest rates. Additionally, competitor pricing and the resulting negotiations that occur with our customers also impact the rates we collect on loans and the rates we pay on deposits. As interest rates change, we expect that we will periodically experience "gaps" in the interest rate sensitivities of our assets and liabilities, meaning that either our interest-bearing liabilities (usually deposits and borrowings) will be more sensitive to changes in market interest rates than our interest-earning assets (usually loans and investment securities), or vice versa. In either event, if market interest rates should move contrary to our position, this "gap" may work against us, and our earnings may be negatively affected. During 2014, and in anticipation of increases in short term interest rates in the second half of 2015 that we anticipate will occur, we have reduced the amount of variable rate loans with interest rate floors by approximately $300 million. We believe that the reduction in the amount of variable rate loans with interest rate floors should better position our balance sheet for a rising rate environment. In the event that short-term interest rates don't rise in the second half of 2015, our efforts to transition our balance sheet to a more asset sensitive position may negatively impact our results of operations as we may earn less interest on these loans than we would have had we maintained these loan floors. Changes in the level of interest rates also may negatively affect our ability to originate loans, the value of our assets and our ability to realize gains from the sale of our assets, all of which ultimately affect our earnings. A decline in the market value of our assets may limit our ability to borrow additional funds. As a result, we could be required to sell some of our loans and investments under adverse market conditions, upon terms that are not favorable to us, in order to maintain our liquidity. If those sales are made at prices lower than the amortized costs of the investments, we will incur losses. Because of the number of loans that we have made with interest rate floors above current rates, in a rising rate environment our liabilities may reprice faster than our loans, which would negatively impact our results of operations. We have entered into certain hedging transactions including interest rate swaps, which are designed to lessen elements of our interest rate exposure. In the even that interest rates do not change in the manner anticipated, such transactions may not be effective. 17 Our ability to declare and pay dividends is limited. While our board of directors has approved the payment of a quarterly cash dividend on our common stock since the fourth quarter of 2013, there can be no assurance of whether or when we may pay dividends on our common stock in the future. Future dividends, if any, will be declared and paid at the discretion of our board of directors and will depend on a number of factors. Our principal source of funds used to pay cash dividends on our common stock will be dividends that we receive from Pinnacle Bank. Although Pinnacle Bank's asset quality, earnings performance, liquidity and capital requirements will be taken into account before we declare or pay any future dividends on our common stock, our board of directors will also consider our liquidity and capital requirements and our board of directors could determine to declare and pay dividends without relying on dividend payments from Pinnacle Bank. Federal and state banking laws and regulations and state corporate laws restrict the amount of dividends we may declare and pay. For example, Federal Reserve Board regulations implementing the capital rules required under Basel III do not permit dividends unless capital levels exceed certain higher levels applying capital conservation buffers that begin to apply on January 1, 2016 and are thereafter phased in over three years. In addition, the terms of the indentures pursuant to which our subordinated debentures have been issued prohibit us from paying dividends on our common stock at times when we are deferring the payment of interest on our subordinated debentures. Moreover, the terms of our and our bank subsidiary's loan agreements prohibit us from paying dividends on our common stock when there is an event of default or unmatured event of default under the loan agreements or when the payment of the dividend would result in an event of default or unmatured event of default under the loan agreements. We have a concentration of credit exposure to borrowers in certain industries, and we also target small to medium-sized businesses. At December 31, 2014, we had meaningful credit exposures to borrowers in certain businesses, including commercial and residential building lessors, new home builders, and land subdividers. These industries experienced adversity during 2008 through 2010 as a result of sluggish economic conditions, and, as a result, an increased level of borrowers in these industries were unable to perform under their loan agreements with us, or suffered loan downgrades which negatively impacted our results of operations. If the economic environment in our markets weakens in 2015 or beyond, these industry concentrations could result in increased deterioration in credit quality, past dues, loan charge offs and collateral value declines, which could cause our earnings to be negatively impacted. Furthermore, any of our large credit exposures that deteriorate unexpectedly could cause us to have to make significant additional loan loss provisions, negatively impacting our earnings. A substantial focus of our marketing and business strategy is to serve small to medium-sized businesses in the Nashville and Knoxville MSAs. As a result, a relatively high percentage of our loan portfolio consists of commercial loans primarily to small to medium-sized businesses. At December 31, 2014, our commercial and industrial loans accounted for almost 38.9% of our total loans, up from 31.5% at December 31, 2010. Additionally, approximately, 16.7% of our loans at December 31, 2014 are owner-occupied commercial real estate loans, which are loans to businesses secured by the businesses' real estate. We expect to seek to expand the amount and percentage of such loans in our portfolio in 2015. During periods of lower economic growth like those we have experienced in recent years, small to medium-sized businesses may be impacted more severely and more quickly than larger businesses. Consequently, the ability of such businesses to repay their loans may deteriorate, and in some cases this deterioration may occur quickly, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial condition. 18 We are geographically concentrated in the Nashville, Tennessee and Knoxville, Tennessee MSAs, and changes in local economic conditions impact our profitability. We currently operate primarily in the Nashville, Tennessee and Knoxville, Tennessee MSAs, and most of our borrowers, depositors and other customers live or have operations in these areas. Accordingly, our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in these markets, along with the continued attraction of business ventures to the areas, and our profitability is impacted by the changes in general economic conditions in these markets. We cannot assure you that economic conditions, including loan demand, in our markets will improve during 2015 or thereafter, and in that case, we may not be able to grow our loan portfolio in line with our expectations, the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us may be negatively impacted and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. Compared to regional or national financial institutions, we are less able to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance that we will benefit from any market growth or return of more favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. If our allowance for loan losses is not sufficient to cover losses inherent in our portfolio, our earnings will decrease. If loan customers with significant loan balances fail to repay their loans, our earnings and capital levels will suffer. We make various assumptions and judgments about the probable losses in our loan portfolio, including the creditworthiness of our borrowers and the value of any collateral securing the loans. We maintain an allowance for loan losses to cover our estimate of the probable losses in our loan portfolio. In determining the size of this allowance, we utilize estimates based on analyses of volume and types of loans, internal loan classifications, trends in classifications, volume and trends in delinquencies, nonaccruals and charge-offs, loss experience of various loan categories, national and local economic conditions, industry and peer bank loan quality indications, and other pertinent factors and information. If our assumptions are inaccurate, our current allowance may not be sufficient to cover potential loan losses, and additional provisions may be necessary which would decrease our earnings. In addition, federal and state regulators periodically review our loan portfolio and may require us to increase our allowance for loan losses or recognize loan charge-offs. Their conclusions about the quality of a particular borrower or our entire loan portfolio may be different than ours. Any increase in our allowance for loan losses or loan charge offs as required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our operating results. Moreover, additions to the allowance may be necessary based on changes in economic and real estate market conditions, new information regarding existing loans, identification of additional problem loans, accounting rule changes and other factors, both within and outside of our management's control. These additions may require increased provision expense which would negatively impact our results of operations. Our ability to grow our loan portfolio may be limited by, among other things, economic conditions, competition within our market areas, the timing of loan repayments and seasonality. Our ability to continue to improve our operating results is dependent upon, among other things, aggressively growing our loan portfolio. While we believe that our strategy to grow our loan portfolio is sound and our growth targets are achievable over an extended period of time, competition within our market areas is significant, particularly for borrowers whose businesses have been less negatively impacted by the challenging economic conditions of the last few years. We compete with both large regional and national financial institutions, who are sometimes able to offer more attractive interest rates and other financial terms than we choose to offer, and smaller community-based financial institutions who seek to offer a similar level of service to that which we offer. This competition can make loan growth challenging, particularly if we are unwilling to price loans at levels that would cause unacceptable levels of compression of our net interest margin or if we are unwilling to structure a loan in a manner that we believe results in a level of risk to our Company that we are not willing to accept. Moreover, loan growth throughout the year can fluctuate due in part to seasonality of the businesses of our borrowers and potential borrowers and the timing on loan repayments, particularly those of our borrowers with significant relationships with us, resulting from, among other things, excess levels of liquidity. 19 Our investment in BHG may not produce the contribution to our results of operations that we expect. On February 4, 2015 we acquired a 30% interest in BHG for $75 million in cash. Although we have made other investments in businesses that we do not control, this is the largest investment of this type that we have made. While we have a significant stake in BHG, are entitled to designate one member of BHG's four person board of managers and in some instances have protective rights to block BHG from engaging in certain activities, we do not control BHG and the other managers and members of BHG make most decisions regarding BHG's operations without our consent or approval, including a decision to sell BHG subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions. Moreover, there are certain limitations on our ability to sell our interest in BHG without first offering BHG and the other members a right of first refusal. A significant portion of BHG's revenue (and correspondingly our interest in any of BHG's net profits) comes from the sale of loans originated by BHG to community banks, and the market for these loans. Moreover, the purchase price we paid to acquire our interest in BHG was based on our expectation that BHG will continue to grow its business and increase the amount of loans that it is able to originate and sell. In the event that BHG's loan growth slows over historical levels and the resulting loan sales decrease, its results of operations (and our interest in the net profits of BHG) would be materially and adversely affected and our non-interest income would be adversely affected. BHG currently operates in most states without the need for a permit or any other license. In the event that BHG was required to register or become licensed in any state in which it operates, or regulations are adopted that seek to limit BHG's ability to operate in any jurisdiction or that seek to limit the amounts of interest that BHG can charge on its loans, BHG's results of operations (and our interest in BHG's net profits) could be materially and adversely affected. We anticipate that foreclosed real estate expense will continue to negatively impact our earnings. As we acted to resolve non-performing real estate loans over the last few years, our level of other real estate owned was elevated in comparison to our first six years of operation. As a result, we experienced elevated levels of foreclosed real estate expense. Foreclosed real estate expense consists of three types of charges: maintenance costs, valuation adjustments to appraisal values and gains or losses on disposition. Should levels of other real estate owned increase or should local real estate values decline, these charges will continue to negatively impact our results of operations. Our loan portfolio includes a meaningful amount of real estate construction and development loans, which have a greater credit risk than residential mortgage loans. Although we have made meaningful progress over the last three years in reducing our concentration of real estate construction and development loans, the percentage of these loans in Pinnacle Bank's portfolio was approximately 7.0% of total loans at December 31, 2014. These loans make up approximately 31.0% of our non-performing loans at December 31, 2014. This type of lending is generally considered to have relatively high credit risks because the principal is concentrated in a limited number of loans with repayment dependent on the successful completion and operation of the related real estate project. The credit quality of many of these loans deteriorated during the challenging economic period of 2008 to 2012 due to the adverse conditions in the real estate market during that period and that type of deterioration could occur again. Weakness in residential real estate market prices as well as demand could result in price reductions in home and land values adversely affecting the value of collateral securing the construction and development loans that we hold. Should we experience the return of these adverse economic and real estate market conditions we may again experience increases in non-performing loans and other real estate owned, increased losses and expenses from the management and disposition of non-performing assets, increases in provision for loan losses, and increases in operating expenses as a result of the allocation of management time and resources to the collection and work out of loans, all of which would negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. Changes to capital requirements for bank holding companies and depository institutions that became effective on January 1, 2015 may negatively impact Pinnacle Financial's and Pinnacle Bank's results of operations In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC approved final rules that substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Pinnacle Bank and Pinnacle Financial. The final rules, which became effective on January 1, 2015, implement the Basel III regulatory capital reforms and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. 20 Under these rules, the leverage and risk-based capital ratios of bank holding companies may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The final rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios. Moreover, these rules refine the definition of what constitutes "capital" for purposes of calculating those ratios, including the definitions of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to bank holding companies and banks subject to the rules are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The rules also establish a "capital conservation buffer" of 2.5% (to be phased in over three years) above the new regulatory minimum risk-based capital ratios, and result in the following minimum ratios once the capital conservation buffer is fully phased in: (i) a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 7%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. The capital conservation buffer requirement is to be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. We will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if our capital levels fall below these minimums plus the buffer amounts. These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. Under these new rules, Tier 1 capital generally consists of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings, limited amounts of minority interest in the form of additional Tier 1 capital instruments, and non-cumulative preferred stock and related surplus, subject to certain eligibility standards, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions. Cumulative preferred stock and trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010, no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital, but such securities issued prior to May 19, 2010, including in the case of bank holding companies with less than $15.0 billion in total assets, trust preferred securities issued prior to that date, continue to count as Tier 1 capital subject to certain limitations. The definition of Tier 2 capital is generally unchanged for most banking organizations, subject to certain new eligibility criteria. Common equity Tier 1 capital generally consists of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings plus limited amounts of minority interest in the form of common stock, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions. The final rules allow banks and their holding companies with less than $250 billion in assets a one-time opportunity to opt-out of a requirement to include unrealized gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income in their capital calculation. Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank expect that each of them will opt-out of this requirement. The application of more stringent capital requirements for Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank, like those adopted to implement the Basel III reforms, could, among other things, result in lower returns on invested capital, require the raising of additional capital, and result in regulatory actions if we were to be unable to comply with such requirements. Furthermore, the imposition of liquidity requirements in connection with the implementation of Basel III could result in our having to lengthen the term of our funding, restructure our business models and/or increase our holdings of liquid assets. Implementation of changes to asset risk weightings for risk based capital calculations, items included or deducted in calculating regulatory capital and/or additional capital conservation buffers could result in management modifying its business strategy and could limit our ability to make distributions, including paying dividends or buying back shares. 21 We are dependent on our information technology and telecommunications systems and third-party servicers, and systems failures, interruptions or breaches of security could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential and other information in our computer systems and networks. Although we take protective measures and endeavor to modify these systems as circumstances warrant, the security of our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to breaches, unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious code and other events that could have a security impact. We outsource many of our major systems, such as data processing, loan servicing and deposit processing systems. The failure of these systems, or the termination of a third-party software license or service agreement on which any of these systems is based, could interrupt our operations. Because our information technology and telecommunications systems interface with and depend on third-party systems, we could experience service denials if demand for such services exceeds capacity or such third-party systems fail or experience interruptions. If sustained or repeated, a system failure or service denial could result in a deterioration of our ability to process new and renewal loans, gather deposits and provide customer service, compromise our ability to operate effectively, damage our reputation, result in a loss of customer business and/or subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny and possible financial liability, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, we provide our customers the ability to bank remotely, including over the Internet or through their mobile device. The secure transmission of confidential information is a critical element of remote and mobile banking. Our network could be vulnerable to unauthorized access, computer viruses, phishing schemes, spam attacks, human error, natural disasters, power loss and other security breaches. We may be required to spend significant capital and other resources to protect against the threat of security breaches and computer viruses, or to alleviate problems caused by security breaches or viruses. To the extent that our activities or the activities of our customers involve the storage and transmission of confidential information, security breaches (including breaches of security of customer systems and networks) and viruses could expose us to claims, litigation and other possible liabilities. Any inability to prevent security breaches or computer viruses could also cause existing customers to lose confidence in our systems and could adversely affect our reputation, results of operations and ability to attract and maintain customers and businesses. In addition, a security breach could also subject us to additional regulatory scrutiny, expose us to civil litigation and possible financial liability and cause reputational damage. Environmental liability associated with commercial lending could result in losses. In the course of business, Pinnacle Bank may acquire, through foreclosure, or deed in lieu of foreclosure, properties securing loans it has originated or purchased which are in default. Particularly in commercial real estate lending, there is a risk that hazardous substances could be discovered on these properties. In this event, we, or Pinnacle Bank, might be required to remove these substances from the affected properties at our sole cost and expense. The cost of this removal could substantially exceed the value of affected properties. We may not have adequate remedies against the prior owner or other responsible parties and could find it difficult or impossible to sell the affected properties. These events could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 National or state legislation or regulation may increase our expenses and reduce earnings. Bank regulators are increasing regulatory scrutiny, and additional restrictions (including those originating from the Dodd-Frank Act) on financial institutions have been proposed or adopted by regulators and by Congress. Changes in tax law, federal legislation, regulation or policies, such as bankruptcy laws, deposit insurance, consumer protection laws, and capital requirements, among others, can result in significant increases in our expenses and/or charge-offs, which may adversely affect our earnings. Changes in state or federal tax laws or regulations can have a similar impact. Many state and municipal governments, including the State of Tennessee, though showing signs of improvement, remain under financial stress due to the economy. As a result, these governments could seek to increase their tax revenues through increased tax levies which could have a meaningful impact on our results of operations. Furthermore, financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to continue to be very aggressive in responding to concerns and trends identified in examinations, including the continued issuance of additional formal or informal enforcement or supervisory actions. These actions, whether formal or informal, could result in our agreeing to limitations or to take actions that limit our operational flexibility, restrict our growth or increase our capital or liquidity levels. Failure to comply with any formal or informal regulatory restrictions, including informal supervisory actions, could lead to further regulatory enforcement actions. Negative developments in the financial services industry and the impact of recently enacted or new legislation in response to those developments could negatively impact our operations by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. In addition, industry, legislative or regulatory developments may cause us to materially change our existing strategic direction, capital strategies, compensation or operating plans. Implementation of the various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act may increase our operating costs or otherwise have a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed the Dodd-Frank Act. This landmark legislation includes, among other things, (i) the creation of a Financial Services Oversight Counsel to identify emerging systemic risks and improve interagency cooperation; (ii) the elimination of the Office of Thrift Supervision and the transfer of oversight of federally chartered thrift institutions and their holding companies to the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Reserve; (iii) the creation of a Consumer Financial Protection Agency authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products that would affect banks and non-bank finance companies; (iv) the establishment of new capital and prudential standards for banks and bank holding companies; (v) the termination of investments by the U.S. Treasury under TARP; (vi) enhanced regulation of financial markets, including the derivatives, securitization and mortgage origination markets; (vii) the elimination of certain proprietary trading and private equity investment activities by banks; (viii) the elimination of barriers to de novo interstate branching by banks; (ix) a permanent increase of FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000; (x) the authorization of interest-bearing transaction accounts; and (xi) changes in how the FDIC deposit insurance assessments will be calculated and an increase in the minimum designated reserve ratio for the Deposit Insurance Fund. Certain provisions of the legislation are not immediately effective or are subject to required studies and implementing regulations. Further, community banks with less than $10 billion in assets (like us) are exempt from certain provisions of the legislation. In the event that our assets were to exceed $10 billion, we would become subject to these additional regulations and our results of operations may be materially impacted by the additional costs to comply with these additional regulations. Although several regulations implementing portions of the Dodd-Frank Act have been promulgated, we are still unable to predict how this significant new legislation may be interpreted and enforced or how implementing regulations and supervisory policies may affect us. There can be no assurance that these or future reforms will not significantly increase our compliance or operating costs or otherwise have a significant impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 23 Future expansion and acquisitions may result in additional risks. We expect to continue to expand through additional branches and may consider other geographic expansion, including possible acquisitions of all or part of other financial institutions. Such expansions involve various risks, including: The difficulty of successfully integrating the acquired institutions or branches with our existing systems; Inaccurate estimates or assessments of the future management, market, operating results or credit quality of acquired institutions or branches or products Incurrence of goodwill and other intangibles and potential for potential impairment of these intangibles and the adverse impact on future results of operations; Potential for loss of employees or customers of the acquired institution or branch and difficulty of attracting new employees and customers to denovo branches; and Potential for diversion or disruption of our existing operations or management as well as those of the acquired institution. Our ability to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets and deteriorating economic and market conditions. We, and Pinnacle Bank, are required to maintain certain capital levels established by banking regulations or specified by bank regulators, including those capital maintenance standards imposed on us as a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, and we are required to serve as a source of strength to Pinnacle Bank. We must also maintain adequate funding sources in the normal course of business to support our operations and fund outstanding liabilities. Our ability to maintain capital levels, sources of funding and liquidity could be impacted by changes in the capital markets in which we operate and deteriorating economic and market conditions. Pinnacle Bank is required to obtain regulatory approval in order to pay dividends to us unless the amount of such dividends does not exceed its retained net income for that calendar year plus net income for the preceding two years. Any restriction in the ability of Pinnacle Bank to pay dividends to us could impact our ability to continue to pay dividends on our common stock. Moreover, failure by our bank subsidiary to meet applicable capital guidelines or to satisfy certain other regulatory requirements could subject our bank subsidiary to a variety of enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. Certain of our deposits and other funding sources may be volatile and impact our liquidity. In addition to the traditional core deposits, such as demand deposit accounts, interest checking, money market savings and certificates of deposits less than $250,000, we utilize or in the past have utilized several noncore funding sources, such as brokered certificates of deposit, Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) of Cincinnati advances, federal funds purchased and other sources. We utilize these noncore funding sources to fund the ongoing operations and growth of Pinnacle Bank. The availability of these noncore funding sources is subject to broad economic conditions and to investor assessment of our financial strength and, as such, the cost of funds may fluctuate significantly and/or be restricted, thus impacting our net interest income, our immediate liquidity and/or our access to additional liquidity. We have somewhat similar risks to the extent high balance core deposits exceed the amount of deposit insurance coverage available. We impose certain internal limits as to the absolute level of noncore funding we will incur at any point in time. Should we exceed those limitations, we may need to modify our growth plans, liquidate certain assets, participate loans to correspondents or execute other actions to allow for us to return to an acceptable level of noncore funding within a reasonable amount of time. 24 If the federal funds and interbank funding rates remain at current extremely low levels, our net interest margin, and consequently our net earnings, may be negatively impacted . Because of significant competitive pressures in our market and the negative impact of these pressures on our deposit and loan pricing, coupled with the fact that a significant portion of our loan portfolio has variable rate pricing that moves in concert with changes to the Federal Reserve Board of Governors' federal funds rate or the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) (both of which are at extremely low levels as a result of current economic conditions), our net interest margin may be negatively impacted. Additionally, the amount of non-accrual loans and other real estate owned has been and may continue to be elevated. We also expect loan pricing to remain competitive in 2015 and believe that economic factors affecting broader markets will likely result in reduced yields for our investment securities portfolio. As a result, our net interest margin, and consequently our profitability, may continue to be negatively impacted in 2015 and beyond. A decline in our stock price or expected future cash flows, or a material adverse change in our results of operations or prospects, could result in impairment of our goodwill. A significant and sustained decline in our stock price and market capitalization below book value, a significant decline in our expected future cash flows, a significant adverse change in the business climate, slower growth rates or other factors could result in impairment of our goodwill. At December 31, 2014, our goodwill and other identifiable intangible assets totaled approximately $246.4 million. If we were to conclude that a write-down of our goodwill is necessary, then the appropriate charge would likely cause a material loss. Any significant loss would further adversely impact the capacity of Pinnacle Bank to pay dividends to us without seeking prior regulatory approval, which could adversely affect our ability to pay required interest payments and preferred stock dividends. Competition with other banking institutions could adversely affect our profitability. A number of banking institutions in the Nashville and Knoxville MSAs have higher lending limits, more banking offices, and a larger market share of loans or deposits than do we. In addition, our asset management division competes with numerous brokerage firms and mutual fund companies which are also much larger. In some respects, this may place these competitors in a competitive advantage. This competition may limit or reduce our profitability, reduce our growth and adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Inability to retain senior management and key employees or to attract new experienced financial services professionals could impair our relationship with our customers, reduce growth and adversely affect our business. We have assembled a senior management team which has substantial background and experience in banking and financial services in the Nashville and Knoxville markets. Moreover, much of our loan growth in 2012 through 2014 was the result of our ability to attract experienced financial services professionals who have been able to attract customers from other financial institutions. Inability to retain these key personnel or to continue to attract experienced lenders with established books of business could negatively impact our growth because of the loss of these individuals' skills and customer relationships and/or the potential difficulty of promptly replacing them. We are subject to certain litigation, and our expenses related to this litigation may adversely affect our results. We are from time to time subject to certain litigation in the ordinary course of our business. These claims and legal actions, including supervisory actions by our regulators, could involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. The outcome of these cases is uncertain. However, we have seen both the number of cases and our expenses related to those cases increase. Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against us could have material adverse financial effects or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could seriously harm our business prospects. 25 We may issue additional common stock or other equity securities in the future which could dilute the ownership interest of existing stockholders. In order to maintain our or Pinnacle Bank's capital at desired or regulatory-required levels, we may issue additional shares of common stock, or securities convertible into, exchangeable for or representing rights to acquire shares of common stock. We may sell these shares at prices below the current market price of shares, and the sale of these shares may significantly dilute stockholder ownership. We could also issue additional shares in connection with acquisitions of other financial institutions, which would also dilute stockholder ownership. Even though our common stock is currently traded on the Nasdaq Stock Market's Global Select Market, it has less liquidity than many other stocks quoted on a national securities exchange. The trading volume in our common stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market has been relatively low when compared with larger companies listed on the Nasdaq Global Select Market or other stock exchanges. Although we have experienced increased liquidity in our stock, we cannot say with any certainty that a more active and liquid trading market for our common stock will continue to develop. Because of this, it may be more difficult for stockholders to sell a substantial number of shares for the same price at which stockholders could sell a smaller number of shares. We cannot predict the effect, if any, that future sales of our common stock in the market, or the availability of shares of common stock for sale in the market, will have on the market price of our common stock. We can give no assurance that sales of substantial amounts of common stock in the market, or the potential for large amounts of sales in the market, would not cause the price of our common stock to decline or impair our future ability to raise capital through sales of our common stock. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly, and may fluctuate in the future. These fluctuations may be unrelated to our performance. General market or industry price declines or overall market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price of our common stock, and the current market price may not be indicative of future market prices. If a change in control is delayed or prevented, the market price of our common stock could be negatively affected. Provisions in our corporate documents, as well as certain federal and state regulations, may make it difficult and expensive to pursue a tender offer, change in control or takeover attempt that our board of directors opposes. As a result, our stockholders may not have an opportunity to participate in such a transaction, and the trading price of our stock may not rise to the level of other institutions that are more vulnerable to hostile takeovers. Anti-takeover provisions contained in our charter also will make it more difficult for an outside stockholder to remove our current board of directors or management. Holders of Pinnacle Financial's indebtedness and junior subordinated debentures have rights that are senior to those of Pinnacle Financial's stockholders. Pinnacle Financial has issued trust preferred securities from special purpose trusts and accompanying junior subordinated debentures. At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial had outstanding trust preferred securities and accompanying junior subordinated debentures totaling $82.5 million. Payments of the principal and interest on the trust preferred securities of these trusts are conditionally guaranteed by Pinnacle Financial. Further, the accompanying junior subordinated debentures Pinnacle Financial issued to the trusts are senior to Pinnacle Financial's shares of common stock. As a result, Pinnacle Financial must make payments on the junior subordinated debentures before any dividends can be paid on common stock and, in the event of Pinnacle Financial's bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of the junior subordinated debentures must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on Pinnacle Financial's common stock. Pinnacle Financial has the right to defer distributions on its junior subordinated debentures (and the related trust preferred securities) for up to five years, during which time no dividends may be paid on its common stock. If our financial condition deteriorates or if we do not receive required regulatory approvals, we may be required to defer distributions on our junior subordinated debentures. 26 On June 15, 2012, Pinnacle Financial entered into a loan agreement with a bank for $25 million, which was subsequently amended on October 2, 2013 (the "Loan Agreement"). Borrowings under the Loan Agreement, combined with available cash, were used for the redemption, on June 20, 2012, of the remaining 71,250 shares of preferred stock owned by the U.S. Treasury that had been issued under the CPP. Pinnacle Financial is required to make quarterly principal payments of $625,000 which began on September 30, 2012, until the loan matures on June 15, 2017. The Loan Agreement includes negative covenants that limit, among other things, certain fundamental transactions, additional indebtedness, transactions with affiliates, liens, and sales of assets. As amended, the Loan Agreement permits Pinnacle Financial to pay dividends so long as there is no event of default or unmatured event of default under the Loan Agreement and the payment of the dividend would not cause an event of default or unmatured event of default. The Loan Agreement specifically restricts transfers or encumbrances of the shares of the capital stock of Pinnacle Financial's bank subsidiary. The Loan Agreement also includes financial covenants related to Pinnacle Financial's, and in some cases, Pinnacle Bank's, capitalization, levels of risk-based capital, ratio of nonperforming assets to tangible primary capital and ratio of allowance for loan and lease losses to nonperforming loans. The Loan Agreement also contains other customary affirmative and negative covenants, representations, warranties and events of default, which include but are not limited to, payment defaults, breaches of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, events of bankruptcy and insolvency, and the institution of certain regulatory enforcement actions against Pinnacle Financial or Pinnacle Bank. If an event of default occurs and is continuing, Pinnacle Financial may be required immediately to repay all amounts outstanding under the Loan Agreement. Furthermore, in the event of Pinnacle Financial's bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation, the holders of this borrowing must be satisfied before any distributions can be made on Pinnacle Financial's common stock. On February 4, 2015, Pinnacle Bank entered into a loan agreement (the "Bank Loan Agreement") with a bank for $40 million, the borrowings from which Pinnacle Bank used to acquire a 30% interest in BHG. The Bank Loan Agreement contains many of the same affirmative and negative covenants as are in the Loan Agreement. If an event of default occurs under the Bank Loan Agreement, Pinnacle Bank may be required to pay all amounts outstanding under the Bank Loan Agreement. Moreover, in the event of Pinnacle Bank's bankruptcy, dissolution or liquidation the obligations under the Bank Loan Agreement must be repaid before any distributions can be made to Pinnacle Financial. Our business is dependent on technology, and an inability to invest in technological improvements may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to better serving customers, the effective use of technology increases efficiency and enables financial institutions to reduce costs. We have made significant investments in data processing, management information systems and internet banking accessibility. Our future success will depend in part upon our ability to create additional efficiencies in our operations through the use of technology. Many of our competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. We cannot make assurances that our technological improvements will increase our operational efficiency or that we will be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services or be successful in marketing these products and services to our customers. We are subject to various statutes and regulations that may impose additional costs or limit our ability to take certain actions. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various regulatory agencies. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged on loans, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capital requirements established by our regulators, which require us to maintain specified levels of capital. It is possible that our FDIC assessments may increase in the future. Any future assessment increases could negatively impact our results of operations. Significant changes in laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry have been recently adopted and others are being considered in Congress. We cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. 27 °Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS None. °Item 2. PROPERTIES The Company's executive offices are located at 150 Third Avenue South, Suite 900, Nashville, Tennessee. The Company operates 34 banking locations throughout our market areas, including 10 for which the Company leases the land, the building or both. The Company has locations in the Tennessee municipalities of Nashville, Knoxville, Murfreesboro, Dickson, Ashland City, Mt. Juliet, Lebanon, Franklin, Brentwood, Hendersonville, Goodlettsville, Smyrna and Shelbyville. °Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS Various legal proceedings to which Pinnacle Financial or a subsidiary of Pinnacle Financial is party arise from time to time in the normal course of business. As of the date hereof, there are no material pending legal proceedings to which Pinnacle Financial or any of its subsidiaries is a party or of which any of its or its subsidiaries' properties are subject. °Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 28 PART II °Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Pinnacle Financial's common stock is traded on the Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol "PNFP" and has traded on that market since July 3, 2006. The following table shows the high and low sales price information for Pinnacle Financial's common stock for each quarter in 2014 and 2013 as reported on the Nasdaq Global Select Market. Price Per Share High Low 2014: First quarter $ 39.10 $ 30.68 Second quarter 39.85 32.77 Third quarter 40.10 34.73 Fourth quarter 40.30 33.93 2013: First quarter $ 23.94 $ 18.97 Second quarter 26.30 21.32 Third quarter 30.18 25.79 Fourth quarter 33.36 29.48 As of February 18, 2014, Pinnacle Financial had approximately 35,809,746 stockholders of record. During the fourth quarter of 2013, we paid a quarterly dividend on our common stock for the first time. The amount of the initial dividend was $0.08 per share. During 2014, we paid a quarterly cash dividend of $0.08 during each of the first, second, third and fourth quarters of 2014. During the first quarter of 2015, we declared a dividend of $0.12 per share to be paid on February 27, 2015. See ITEM 1. "Business Supervision and Regulation Payment of Dividends" and ITEM 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" for additional information on dividend restrictions applicable to Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank. In connection with the settlement of income tax liabilities associated with the Company's equity compensation plans, Pinnacle Financial repurchased shares of its common stock during the quarter ended December 31, 2014 as follows: Period Total Number of Shares Repurchased Average Price Paid Per Share Total Number of Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares That May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs October 1, 2014 to October 31, 2014 440 $ 37.93 - - November 1, 2014 to November 30, 2014 1,554 38.61 - - December 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 - - - - Total 1,994 $ 38.46 - - 29 °Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total assets $ 6,018,248 $ 5,563,776 $ 5,040,549 $ 4,863,951 $ 4,909,004 Loans, net of unearned income 4,590,027 4,144,493 3,712,162 3,291,351 3,212,440 Allowance for loan losses 67,359 67,970 69,417 73,975 82,575 Total securities 770,730 733,252 707,153 897,292 1,018,637 Goodwill, core deposit and other intangible assets 246,422 247,492 249,144 251,919 254,795 Deposits and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 4,876,600 4,603,938 4,129,855 3,785,931 3,979,352 Advances from FHLB 195,476 90,637 75,850 226,069 121,393 Subordinated debt and other borrowings 96,158 98,658 106,158 97,476 97,476 Stockholders' equity 802,693 723,708 679,071 710,145 677,457 Statement of Operations Data: Interest income $ 206,170 $ 191,282 $ 185,422 $ 188,346 $ 203,348 Interest expense 13,185 15,384 22,557 36,882 58,975 Net interest income 192,985 175,899 162,865 151,464 144,373 Provision for loan losses 3,635 7,856 5,569 21,798 53,695 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 189,350 168,042 157,296 129,666 90,678 Noninterest income 52,602 47,104 43,397 37,940 36,315 Noninterest expense 136,300 129,261 138,165 139,107 146,883 Income (loss) before income taxes 105,653 85,884 62,527 28,499 (19,890 ) Income tax expense (benefit) 35,182 28,158 20,643 (15,238 ) 4,410 Net income (loss) 70,471 57,726 41,884 43,737 (24,300 ) Preferred dividends and accretion on common stock warrants - - 3,814 6,665 6,142 Net income (loss) available to common stockholders $ 70,471 $ 57,726 $ 38,070 $ 37,072 $ (30,442 ) Per Share Data: Earnings (loss) per share available to common stockholders basic $ 2.03 $ 1.69 $ 1.12 $ 1.11 $ (0.93 ) Weighted average common shares outstanding basic 34,723,335 34,200,770 33,899,667 33,420,015 32,789,871 Earnings (loss) per common share available to common stockholders diluted $ 2.01 $ 1.67 $ 1.10 $ 1.09 $ (0.93 ) Weighted average common shares outstanding diluted 35,126,890 34,509,261 34,487,808 34,060,228 32,789,871 Common dividends per share $ 0.32 $ 0.08 - - - Book value per common share $ 22.45 $ 20.55 $ 19.57 $ 18.56 $ 17.22 Tangible book value per common share $ 15.62 $ 13.52 $ 12.39 $ 11.33 $ 9.80 Common shares outstanding at end of period 35,732,483 35,221,941 34,696,597 34,354,960 33,870,380 Performance Ratios: Return on average assets 1.24 % 1.11 % 0.78 % 0.77 % (0.61 %) Return on average stockholders' equity 9.19 % 8.22 % 5.46 % 5.27 % (4.37 %) Net interest margin (1) 3.75 % 3.77 % 3.77 % 3.55 % 3.25 % Net interest spread (2) 3.65 % 3.65 % 3.61 % 3.33 % 2.99 % Noninterest income to average assets 0.92 % 0.90 % 0.89 % 0.78 % 0.72 % Noninterest expense to average assets 2.39 % 2.48 % 2.83 % 2.88 % 2.93 % Efficiency ratio (3) 55.50 % 57.96 % 66.99 % 73.45 % 81.29 % Average loan to average deposit ratio 93.15 % 93.46 % 92.78 % 86.76 % 87.64 % Average interest-earning assets to average interest-bearing liabilities 142.64 % 137.78 % 131.44 % 125.84 % 120.27 % Average equity to average total assets ratio 13.46 % 13.47 % 14.30 % 14.55 % 13.90 % Dividend payout ratio (4) 16.67 % 20.38 % - - - Asset Quality Ratios: Allowance for loan losses to nonaccrual loans 403.20 % 373.80 % 304.20 % 154.60 % 102.10 % Allowance for loan losses to total loans 1.47 % 1.64 % 1.87 % 2.25 % 2.57 % Nonperforming assets to total assets 0.46 % 0.60 % 0.82 % 1.80 % 2.86 % Nonperforming assets to total loans and other real estate 0.61 % 0.80 % 1.11 % 2.66 % 4.29 % Net loan charge-offs to average loans 0.10 % 0.24 % 0.29 % 0.94 % 1.96 % Capital Ratios (Pinnacle Financial): Leverage (5) 11.30 % 10.90 % 10.60 % 11.40 % 10.70 % Tier 1 risk-based capital 12.10 % 11.80 % 11.80 % 13.80 % 13.80 % Total risk-based capital 13.40 % 13.00 % 13.00 % 15.30 % 15.40 % (1) Net interest margin is the result of net interest income for the period divided by average interest earning assets. (2) Net interest spread is the result of the difference between the interest earned on interest earning assets less the interest paid on interest bearing liabilities. (3) Efficiency ratio is the result of noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income and noninterest income. (4) Annualized for 2013. (5) Leverage ratio is computed by dividing Tier 1 capital by average total assets for the fourth quarter of each year. 30 °Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following is a discussion of our financial condition at December 31, 2014 and 2013 and our results of operations for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014. The purpose of this discussion is to focus on information about our financial condition and results of operations which is not otherwise apparent from the consolidated financial statements. The following discussion and analysis should be read along with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes included elsewhere herein. Overview General. Our diluted net income per common share available to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $2.01 compared to diluted net income per common share available to common stockholders of $1.67 and $1.10 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Results of operations. Our net interest income increased to $193.0 million for 2014 compared to $175.9 million for 2013 and $162.9 million for 2012. The net interest margin (the ratio of net interest income to average earning assets) for 2014 was 3.75% compared to 3.77% for both 2013 and 2012. Our net interest margin was impacted favorably in all three years by loan growth, an increased effort to reduce our cost of funds and a decreased dependency on higher priced funding. Our provision for loan losses was $3.6 million for 2014 compared to $7.9 million in 2013 and $5.6 million in 2012. Our net charge-offs were $4.2 million during 2014 compared to $9.3 million in 2013 and $10.1 million in 2012. During 2014, we decreased our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans from 1.64% at December 31, 2013 to 1.47% at December 31, 2014 primarily due to the ongoing resolution of non-performing loans, the reduction in our net charge-offs and improvements in the overall credit quality of our loan portfolio during 2014. Noninterest income for 2014 compared to 2013 increased by $5.5 million, or 11.7%. This growth was primarily attributable to an increased number of deposit accounts which resulted in increased service charge and interchange revenues as well as increased production in our fee-based products such as investments, insurance and trust. Noninterest income for 2013 compared to 2012 increased by $3.7 million, or 8.5%, which was also largely impacted by increased production in our fee-based products such as investments, insurance and trust. Noninterest expense for 2014 compared to 2013 increased by $7.0 million, or 5.5%, primarily due to an increase in salaries and employee benefits expense, which increased by $5.7 million and higher equipment and occupancy costs due to the expansion of our corporate headquarters in Nashville, TN as well as the addition of an office in Knoxville, TN during the fourth quarter of 2014, partly offset by decreased other real estate owned expense. Noninterest expense for 2013 compared to 2012 decreased by $8.9 million, or 6.4%, primarily due to decreased other real estate owned expenses, which decreased by $8.4 million over the 2012 levels, decreased amortization expense of $1.5 million, and decreased other noninterest expenses of $4.3 million offset in part by higher salaries and employee benefits expense, which increased by $4.6 million. The number of full-time equivalent employees increased from 730.5 at December 31, 2012 to 751.0 and 764.0 at December 31, 2013 and 2014, respectively. Income tax expense for 2014 was $35.2 million compared to $28.2 million in 2013 and $20.6 million in 2012. The effective income tax expense rate for the year ended December 31, 2014 was approximately 33.3% compared to 32.8% and 33.0% for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. For each of the three years ended December 31, 2014, our effective income tax rate differs from the statutory rates primarily due to our investments in bank qualified municipal securities, our real estate investment trust and bank-owned life insurance. Net income available to common stockholders for 2014 was $70.5 million compared to $57.7 million in net income in 2013 and $38.1 million in 2012. Included in net income available to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2012 was approximately $3.8 million of charges related to preferred stock dividends and accretion of the preferred stock discount related to our participation in the U.S. Treasury's TARP Capital Purchase Program (CPP). The charges associated with the preferred stock in fiscal 2012 included the acceleration of the preferred stock discount associated with the redemption of the remaining 71,250 shares of Series A preferred stock during the second quarter of 2012. 31 Financial Condition. Our loan balances increased by $445.5 million during 2014 compared to an increase of $432.3 million in 2013. The increase in our outstanding loan balances represents the result of increases in the number of relationship advisors in our markets and increased focus on attracting new customers to our Company. Total deposits increased from $4.533 billion at December 31, 2013 to $4.783 billion at December 31, 2014. Within our deposits, the ratio of core funding to total deposits decreased slightly from 85.5% at December 31, 2013 to 84.8% at December 31, 2014. We believe we have hired experienced relationship managers that have significant client portfolios and longstanding reputations within the communities we serve. As such, we believe they will attract more relationship managers to our firm as well as loans and deposits from new and existing small-and middle-market clients as the economies in our principal markets continue to expand. Capital and Liquidity. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, our capital ratios, including our bank's capital ratios, exceeded regulatory minimum capital requirements. From time to time we may be required to support the capital needs of our bank subsidiary. We believe we have various capital raising techniques available to us to provide for the capital needs of our bank, if necessary. Critical Accounting Estimates The accounting principles we follow and our methods of applying these principles conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and with general practices within the banking industry. In connection with the application of those principles, we have made judgments and estimates which, in the case of the determination of our allowance for loan losses, the valuation of other real estate owned, the assessment of the valuation of deferred tax assets and the assessment of impairment of intangibles, has been critical to the determination of our financial position and results of operations. Allowance for Loan Losses (allowance). Our management assesses the adequacy of the allowance prior to the end of each calendar quarter. This assessment includes procedures to estimate the allowance and test the adequacy and appropriateness of the resulting balance. The level of the allowance is based upon management's evaluation of the loan portfolio, loan loss experience, asset quality trends, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers' ability to repay the loan (including the timing of future payment), the estimated value of any underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, economic conditions, industry and peer bank loan quality indications and other pertinent factors, including regulatory recommendations. The level of allowance maintained by management is believed adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date. The allowance is increased by provisions charged to expense and decreased by charge-offs, net of recoveries of amounts previously charged-off. Allocation of the allowance may be made for specific loans, but the entire allowance is available for any loan that, in management's judgment, is deemed uncollectible. In assessing the adequacy of the allowance, we also consider the results of our ongoing independent loan review process. We undertake this process both to ascertain those loans in the portfolio with elevated credit risk and to assist in our overall evaluation of the risk characteristics of the entire loan portfolio. Our loan review process includes the judgment of management, independent internal loan reviewers, and reviews that may have been conducted by third-party reviewers including regulatory examiners. We incorporate relevant loan review results in the allowance. Our allowance for loan losses is composed of the result of two independent analyses pursuant to the provisions of ASC 450-20, Loss Contingencies and ASC 310-10-35, Receivables . The ASC 450-20 analysis is intended to quantify the inherent risk in our performing loan portfolio. The component of the allowance generated by ASC 310-10-35 is the result of a loan-by-loan analysis of impaired loans $250,000 and greater and the resulting impairment percentage being applied to all loans below $250,000. The ASC 450-20 component of the allowance for loan losses begins with a process of estimating the probable losses based on our internal system of risk ratings and historical loss data for our risk rated portfolio. Prior to 2010, because of our limited loss history, loss estimates were primarily derived from historical loss data by loan categories for comparable peer institutions. During 2010, we incorporated the results of our own historical migration analysis of all loans that were charged-off during the prior eight quarters. The look-back period in our migration analysis was extended in 2011 to eleven quarters to continue to include the losses incurred in the second quarter of 2009. Subsequently, we have increased our look-back period each quarter to 32 include the most recent quarters' loss history for a total of 23 quarters as of December 31, 2014. In this current economic environment, we believe the extension of our look-back period in our migration analysis has been appropriate due to the risks inherent in our loan portfolio. Additionally, as the most recent 12 quarters are considered more relevant in this current economic cycle, they have been weighted more than the earliest 11 quarters. The weighting of these quarters will be determined based upon our assessment of the relevance of each quarter in the economic cycle. During the fourth quarter of 2014, we validated our loss emergence period in order to improve our assessment of the migration loss analysis. The loss emergence period is the length of time from an initial event which triggered the loss to the recognition of the loss. The loss emergence period was determined for the losses in each category of loans and then applied to the resulting loss migration analysis. The application of a loss emergence period adjusts the migration analysis for each loan category to a more precise length of time which may be greater than or less than one year. This migration analysis assists in evaluating loan loss allocation rates for the various risk grades assigned to loans in our portfolio. The allowance allocation for non risk-rated portfolios is based on consideration of our actual historical loss rates and are evaluated as a group by category rather than on an individual loan basis because these loans are smaller and homogeneous. We weight the allocation methodologies for the non risk-rated loan portfolio and determine a weighted average allocation for these portfolios. The estimated loan loss allocation for all loan segments is then adjusted for management's estimate of probable losses for a number of environmental factors that have not been fully considered in either the loan by loan impairment or migration analyses. The environmental categories and the measurements used to quantify the risks within each of these categories are subjectively selected by management. The data for each measurement is determined from both internal and external sources. The resulting measurements are assigned a risk factor against the non impaired loan portfolio based upon where each measurement falls on a pre-determined level of risk on a nine point scale. This amount represents estimated probable inherent credit losses which exist, but have not yet been identified either in our risk rating or impairment process, as of the balance sheet date, and is based upon quarterly trend assessments in various concentrations, policy exceptions, economic conditions, loan volume changes, independent loan review, collateral considerations, trends in credit quality, trends in competition and regulatory requirements, enterprise wide risk assessments, modeling risks within the allowance process and peer group credit quality. These environmental factors are considered for each of the five loan segments, and the allowance allocation, as determined by the processes noted above for each segment, is increased or decreased based on the incremental assessment of these various environmental factors. The ASC 450-20 portion of the allowance also includes an unallocated component. We believe that the unallocated amount is warranted for inherent factors that cannot be practically assigned to individual loan categories, such as the imprecision in the overall loss allocation measurement process, the subjectivity risk of not considering all relevant environmental categories and related measurements and imprecision in our credit risk ratings process. The second component of the allowance for loan losses is determined pursuant to ASC 310-10-35. Loans are impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Collection of all amounts due according to the contractual terms means collecting all interest and principal payments of a loan as scheduled in the loan agreement. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires material estimates including the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans that may be susceptible to significant change. Loan losses are charged off when management believes that the full collectability of the loan is unlikely. A loan may be partially charged-off after a "confirming event" has occurred which serves to validate that full repayment pursuant to the terms of the loan is unlikely. An impairment allowance is recognized if the fair value of the loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan (recorded investment in the loan is the principal balance plus any accrued interest, net of deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized premium or discount). The impairment is recognized through the provision for loan losses and is a component of the allowance. Loans that are impaired are recorded at the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, or if the loan is collateral dependent, at the fair value of the collateral, less estimated disposal costs. If the loan is collateral dependent, the principal balance of the loan is charged-off in an amount equal to the impairment measurement. The fair value of collateral dependent loans is derived primarily from collateral appraisals performed by independent third-party appraisers. Management believes it follows appropriate accounting and regulatory guidance in determining impairment and accrual status of impaired loans. 33 Pursuant to the guidance set forth in ASU No. 2011-02, A Creditor's Determination of Whether a Restructuring is a Troubled Debt Restructuring, the above impairment methodology is also applied to those loans identified as troubled debt restructurings. We then test the resulting allowance by comparing the balance in the allowance to historical trends and industry and peer information. Our management then evaluates the result of the procedures performed, including the results of our testing, and decides on the appropriateness of the balance of the allowance in its entirety. The audit committee of our board of directors reviews and approves the methodology and resultant allowance prior to the filing of quarterly and annual financial information. While our policies and procedures used to estimate the allowance for loan losses, as well as the resultant provision for loan losses charged to operations, are considered adequate by management and are reviewed from time to time by our regulators, they are necessarily approximate and inherently imprecise. There are factors beyond our control, such as conditions in the local, national, and international economy, a local real estate market or particular industry conditions which may negatively impact materially our asset quality and the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and thus the resulting provision for loan losses. Other Real Estate Owned. Other real estate owned (OREO), which consists of properties obtained through foreclosure or through deed in lieu of foreclosure in satisfaction of loans, is reported at the lower of cost or fair value based on appraised value less selling costs, estimated as of the date acquired, with any loss recognized as a charge-off through the allowance for loan losses. Additional OREO losses for subsequent downward valuation adjustments are determined on a specific property basis and are included as a component of other noninterest expense along with holding costs. The fair value of other real estate owned is derived primarily from independent appraisers. Our internal policies generally require OREO properties to be appraised every nine months. Any net gains or losses on disposal realized at the time of disposal are reflected, net, in noninterest income or noninterest expense, as applicable. Significant judgments and complex estimates are required in estimating the fair value of other real estate owned, and the period of time within which such estimates can be considered current is significantly shortened during periods of market volatility, as experienced during the last few years. As a result, the net proceeds realized from sales transactions could differ significantly from appraisals, comparable sales, and other estimates used to determine the fair value of other real estate owned. Impairment of Intangible Assets. Long-lived assets, including purchased intangible assets subject to amortization, such as our core deposit intangible asset, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the balance sheet and reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated. There are no such assets to be disposed of at December 31, 2014. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment annually and more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. Our annual assessment date is September 30. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds the asset's fair value. ASC 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other , regarding testing goodwill for impairment provides an entity the option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If an entity does a qualitative assessment and determines it is necessary, or if a qualitative assessment is not performed, it is required to perform a two-step goodwill impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized for that reporting unit (if any). If, based on a qualitative assessment, an entity determines that the fair value of a reporting unit is more than its carrying amount, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. The results of our qualitative assessment indicated that the fair value of our reporting unit was more than its carrying value, and accordingly, the two-step goodwill impairment test was not performed. Should our common stock price decline or other impairment indicators become known, additional impairment testing of goodwill may be required. Should it be determined in a future period that the goodwill has become impaired, then a charge to earnings will be recorded in the period such determination is made. While we believe that the assumptions utilized in our testing were appropriate, they may not reflect actual outcomes that could occur. 34 Specific factors that could negatively impact the assumptions used include the following: a change in the control premium being realized in the market or a meaningful change in the number of mergers and acquisitions occurring; the amount of expense savings that may be realized in an acquisition scenario; significant fluctuations in our asset/liability balances or the composition of our balance sheet; a change in the overall valuation of the stock market, specifically bank stocks; performance of Southeast U.S. Banks; and Pinnacle Financial's performance relative to peers. Changing these assumptions, or any other key assumptions, could have a material impact on the amount of goodwill impairment, if any. Results of Operations The following is a summary of our results of operations for 2014, 2013 and 2012 (in thousands except per share data): Years ended December 31, 2014-2013 Percent Increase Year ended December 31, 2013-2012 Percent Increase 2014 2013 (Decrease) 2012 (Decrease) Interest income $ 206,170 $ 191,282 7.78 % $ 185,422 3.16 % Interest expense 13,185 15,384 (14.29 %) 22,557 (31.80 %) Net interest income 192,985 175,898 9.71 % 162,864 8.00 % Provision for loan losses 3,635 7,857 (53.74 %) 5,569 41.08 % Net interest income after provision for loan losses 189,350 168,041 12.68 % 157,295 6.83 % Noninterest income 52,602 47,104 11.67 % 43,397 8.54 % Noninterest expense 136,300 129,261 5.45 % 138,165 (6.44 %) Net income before income taxes 105,653 85,884 23.02 % 62,527 37.35 % Income tax expense 35,182 28,158 24.94 % 20,643 36.41 % Net income 70,471 57,726 22.08 % 41,884 37.82 % Preferred dividends and preferred stock discount accretion - - - 3,814 (100.00 %) Net income available to common stockholders $ 70,471 $ 57,726 22.08 % $ 38,070 51.63 % Basic net income per common share available to common stockholders $ 2.03 $ 1.69 20.24 % $ 1.12 50.70 % Diluted net income per common share available to common stockholders $ 2.01 $ 1.67 19.93 % $ 1.10 52.07 % Net Interest Income. Net interest income represents the amount by which interest earned on various earning assets exceeds interest paid on deposits and other interest bearing liabilities and is the most significant component of our revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2014, we recorded net interest income of approximately $193.0 million, which resulted in a net interest margin (net interest income divided by the average balance of interest earning assets) of 3.75%. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded net interest income of approximately $175.9 million, which resulted in a net interest margin of 3.77%. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded net interest income of approximately $162.9 million, which resulted in a net interest margin of 3.77%. 35 The following table sets forth the amount of our average balances, interest income or interest expense for each category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and the average interest rate for total interest-earning assets and total interest-bearing liabilities, net interest spread and net interest margin for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014 (in thousands): 2014 2013 2012 Average Balances Interest Rates/ Yields Average Balances Interest Rates/ Yields Average Balances Interest Rates/ Yields Interest-earning assets: Loans (1) $ 4,295,283 $ 184,649 4.31 % $ 3,861,166 $ 169,253 4.40 % $ 3,438,401 $ 160,037 4.66 % Securities: - - - - - - Taxable 594,223 14,227 2.39 % 559,702 14,504 2.59 % 612,677 16,931 2.76 % Tax-exempt (2) 170,617 6,167 4.83 % 173,202 6,378 4.91 % 182,217 6,577 4.82 % Federal funds sold and other 155,585 1,127 0.86 % 144,948 1,147 0.93 % 155,876 1,877 1.33 % Total interest-earning assets 5,215,708 206,170 4.01 % 4,739,018 191,282 4.10 % 4,389,171 185,422 4.29 % Nonearning assets: - - - Intangible assets 246,956 248,291 250,619 Other nonearning assets 237,383 240,018 233,764 $ 5,700,047 $ 5,227,327 $ 4,873,554 - - - Interest-bearing liabilities: - - - Interest-bearing deposits: - - - Interest checking $ 901,442 $ 1,566 0.17 % $ 790,365 $ 1,928 0.24 % $ 677,632 $ 2,800 0.41 % Savings and money market 1,975,517 5,711 0.29 % 1,714,154 5,795 0.34 % 1,575,174 7,884 0.50 % Time deposits 477,902 2,677 0.56 % 564,766 3,998 0.71 % 644,039 6,158 0.96 % Total interest-bearing deposits 3,354,861 9,954 0.30 % 3,069,285 11,721 0.38 % 2,896,845 16,842 0.58 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 67,999 141 0.21 % 113,742 239 0.21 % 134,989 455 0.34 % Federal Home Loan Bank advances 134,874 594 0.44 % 153,912 690 0.45 % 202,338 2,237 1.11 % Subordinated debt and other borrowing 98,698 2,496 2.53 % 102,571 2,734 2.67 % 105,131 3,024 2.87 % Total interest-bearing liabilities 3,656,432 13,185 0.36 % 3,439,510 15,384 0.45 % 3,339,303 22,558 0.68 % Noninterest-bearing deposits 1,256,420 - 0.00 % 1,062,089 - 0.00 % 809,268 - 0.00 % Total deposits and interest- bearing liabilities 4,912,852 13,185 0.27 % 4,501,599 15,384 0.34 % 4,148,571 22,558 0.54 % Other liabilities 19,971 - 21,631 - 27,933 - Stockholders' equity 767,224 - 704,097 - 697,050 - $ 5,700,047 - $ 5,227,327 - $ 4,873,554 - Net interest income $ 192,985 $ 175,898 $ 162,864 Net interest spread (3) 3.65 % 3.65 % 3.61 % Net interest margin (4) 3.75 % 3.77 % 3.77 % (1) Average balances of nonperforming loans are included in average loan balances. (2) Yields based on the carrying value of those tax exempt instruments are shown on a fully tax equivalent basis. (3) Yields realized on interest-bearing assets less the rates paid on interest-bearing liabilities. The net interest spread calculation excludes the impact of demand deposits. Had the impact of demand deposits been included, the net interest spread for the year ended December 31, 2014 would have been 3.74% compared to a net interest spread for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 of 3.75% and 3.74%, respectively. (4) Net interest margin is the result of net interest income calculated on a tax-equivalent basis divided by average interest earning assets for the period. For the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, our net interest spread was 3.65% in both years, while the net interest margin was 3.75% and 3.77%, respectively. The net interest spread and net interest margin were 3.61% and 3.77%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012. The net interest margin has been greatly impacted by management's efforts to increase low cost deposits and increase loan volumes. Our loan yields decreased between 2014 and 2013 as the competition for quality loans continues to be intense and the market dictates the rate necessary in order to grow volumes. During the year ended December 31, 2014, total funding rates were less than those rates for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 by 0.07% and 0.27%, respectively. The net decrease was impacted by the continued shift in our deposit mix, as we increased our lower cost transaction account balances and concurrently reduced balances of higher cost time deposits. Additionally, lower levels of nonaccrual loans positively impacted our net interest margin during the year ended December 31, 2014 when compared to the same period in 2013. Average nonperforming loans were $17.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2014, compared to $21.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 and $38.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. 36 We continue to deploy various asset liability management strategies to manage our risk to interest rate fluctuations. We currently believe that short term rates will remain low for an extended period of time. We believe margin expansion over both the short and the long term will be challenging due to continued pressure on earning asset yields during this extended period of a low interest rates. Loan pricing for creditworthy borrowers is very competitive in our markets and has limited our ability to increase pricing on new and renewed loans over the last several quarters. We anticipate that this challenging competitive environment will continue in 2015. We do believe our net interest income should increase in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to an increase in average earning asset volumes, primarily loans. We anticipate funding these increased earning assets by continuing to grow our core deposits, with wholesale funding limited to that required to fund the shortfall. Rate and Volume Analysis. Net interest income increased by $17.1 million between the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 and by $13.0 million between the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. The following is an analysis of the changes in our net interest income comparing the changes attributable to rates and those attributable to volumes (in thousands): 2014 Compared to 2013 Increase (decrease) due to 2013 Compared to 2012 Increase (decrease) due to Rate Volume Net Rate Volume Net Interest-earning assets: Loans $ (3,475 ) $ 19,101 $ 15,396 $ (8,940 ) $ 18,156 $ 9,216 Securities: Taxable (1,119 ) 894 (277 ) (1,042 ) (1,385 ) (2,427 ) Tax-exempt (139 ) (127 ) (211 ) 164 (363 ) (199 ) Federal funds sold (101 ) 99 (20 ) (624 ) (106 ) (730 ) Total interest-earning assets (4,834 ) 19,967 14,888 (10,442 ) 16,302 5,860 Interest-bearing liabilities: Interest-bearing deposits: Interest checking (553 ) 267 (362 ) (1,152 ) 280 (872 ) Savings and money market (857 ) 889 (84 ) (2,520 ) 431 (2,089 ) Time deposits (847 ) (617 ) (1,321 ) (1,610 ) (550 ) (2,160 ) Total deposits (2,257 ) 539 (1,767 ) (5,282 ) 161 (5,121 ) Securities sold under agreements to repurchase - (96 ) (98 ) (175 ) (41 ) (216 ) Federal Home Loan Bank advances (15 ) (86 ) (96 ) (1,315 ) (232 ) (1,547 ) Subordinated debt and other borrowings (144 ) (103 ) (237 ) (210 ) (81 ) (291 ) Total interest-bearing liabilities (2,416 ) 253 (2,198 ) (6,982 ) (193 ) (7,175 ) Net interest income $ (2,418 ) $ 19,714 $ 17,086 $ (3,460 ) $ 16,495 $ 13,035 Changes in net interest income are attributed to either changes in average balances (volume change) or changes in average rates (rate change) for earning assets and sources of funds on which interest is received or paid. Volume change is calculated as change in volume times the previous rate while rate change is change in rate times the previous volume. The change attributed to rates and volumes (change in rate times change in volume) is considered above as a change in volume. Provision for Loan Losses. The provision for loan losses represents a charge to earnings necessary to establish an allowance for loan losses that, in our management's evaluation, we believe to be adequate to provide coverage for the inherent losses on outstanding loans. The provision for loan losses amounted to approximately $3.6 million, $7.9 million, and $5.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, respectively. Impacting the provision for loan losses in any accounting period are several factors including the change in outstanding loan balances, the level of charge-offs and recoveries, the changes in the amount of impaired loans, changes in the risk ratings assigned to our loans, results of regulatory examinations, credit quality comparison to peer banks, the industry at large, and, ultimately, the results of our quarterly assessment of the inherent risks of our loan portfolio including past loan loss experience. 37 Provision expense for the year ended December 31, 2014 has decreased as compared to 2013, primarily due to a reduction in both net charge-offs and the overall amount of the allowance for loan losses. Provision expense for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased as compared to 2012, primarily due to growth in the loan portofolio, although both net charge offs and the overall amount of the allowance declined. Based upon management's assessment of the loan portfolio, we adjust our allowance for loan losses to an amount deemed appropriate to adequately cover probable losses in the loan portfolio. Our allowance for loan losses as a percentage of loans decreased from 1.64% at December 31, 2013 to 1.47% at December 31, 2014. Based upon our evaluation of the loan portfolio, we believe the allowance for loan losses to be adequate to absorb our estimate of probable losses existing in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2014. While our policies and procedures used to estimate the allowance for loan losses, as well as the resultant provision for loan losses charged to operations, are considered adequate by management, they are necessarily approximate and imprecise. There are factors beyond our control, such as conditions in the local and national economy, local real estate market or a particular industry or borrower which may negatively impact, materially, our asset quality and the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and, thus, the resulting provision for loan losses. The Company believes it will continue to experience reductions in its allowance to loans ratio in 2015 which will serve to reduce provision expense; however, the Company believes that provision expense will likely increase in 2015 in comparison to 2014's provision expense as the Company expects to continue to grow its loan portfolio in 2015. Noninterest Income. Our noninterest income is composed of several components, some of which vary significantly between annual periods. Service charges on deposit accounts and other noninterest income generally reflect our growth, while investment services, fees from the origination of mortgage loans, swap fees and gains on the sale of securities will often reflect market conditions and fluctuate from period to period. The following is our noninterest income for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 (in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2014-2013 Percent Increase Year ended December 31, 2013-2012 Percent Increase 2014 2013 (Decrease) 2012 (Decrease) Noninterest income: Service charges on deposit accounts $ 11,707 $ 10,558 10.88 % $ 9,918 6.45 % Investment services 9,383 8,038 16.73 % 6,985 15.08 % Insurance sales commissions 4,613 4,537 1.68 % 4,461 1.70 % Gains on mortgage loans sold, net 5,630 6,243 (9.82 %) 6,699 (6.81 %) Investment gains (losses) on sales and impairments, net 29 (1,466 ) 101.98 % 2,151 (168.15 %) Trust fees 4,601 3,747 22.79 % 3,196 17.24 % Other noninterest income: - Interchange and other consumer fees 8,259 7,517 9.87 % 6,264 20.00 % Bank-owned life insurance 2,426 2,116 14.65 % 919 130.25 % Loan swap fees 264 1,162 (77.28 %) 203 472.41 % Other equity investments 690 122 465.57 % (70 ) (274.29 %) Other noninterest income 5,000 4,529 10.40 % 2,671 69.56 % Total other noninterest income 16,639 15,446 7.72 % 9,987 54.66 % Total noninterest income $ 52,602 $ 47,103 11.67 % $ 43,397 8.54 % The increase in service charges on deposit accounts in 2014 compared to 2013 and 2012 is primarily related to increased analysis fees on our commercial client accounts as well as a 5.5% and 12.9% increase in deposit base when compared to 2013 and 2012, respectively. Also included in noninterest income are commissions and fees from investment services at our financial advisory unit, Pinnacle Asset Management, a division of Pinnacle Bank. At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Asset Management was receiving commissions and fees in connection with approximately $1.70 billion in brokerage assets held with Raymond James and Associates compared to $1.56 billion at December 31, 2013. Insurance commissions were approximately $4.6 million during 2014 and $4.5 million during 2013. Additionally, at December 31, 2014, our trust department was receiving fees on approximately $765 million and $861 million of managed and custodied assets, respectively, compared to approximately $639 million and $746 million at December 31, 2013. 38 Gains on mortgage loans sold consists of fees from the origination and sale of mortgage loans. These mortgage fees are for loans originated principally in both the Middle Tennessee and Knoxville markets that are subsequently sold to third-party investors. All of our mortgage loan sales transfer servicing rights to the buyer. Generally, mortg age origination fees increase in lower interest rate environments and more robust housing markets and decrease in rising interest rate environments and more challenging housing markets. Mortgage origination fees will fluctuate from quarter to quarter as the rate environment changes. Over the last several years, the reduced interest rates have provided home owners the opportunity to refinance their existing mortgages at low rates; however, as interest rates remain flat or begin to rise, we anticipate that our mortgage originations will continue to decrease from those levels realized in recent years. The fees from the origination and sale of mortgage loans have been netted against the commission expense associated with these originations. During the year ended December 31, 2013, we recognized an other-than-temporary-impairment charge in the third quarter of 2013 of $1.5 million on approximately $23.4 million of bonds that were subsequently sold during the fourth quarter. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we realized approximately $2.2 million in net gains from the sale of $188.6 million of securities available-for-sale. To better manage our securities portfolio, we elected to sell these securities due to their relative underperfomance compared to the market, in order to minimize small dollar investments in our portfolio and due to other than temporarily impaired (OTTI) concerns on investment securities in certain municipalities. The gain we recognized in 2014 associated with bond sales was de minimis. Included in other noninterest income are interchange and other consumer fees, gains from bank-owned life insurance, swap fees earned for the facilitation of derivative transactions for our clients, changes in the fair value of our other equity investments and other items. Interchange revenues increased as a result of increased debit and credit card transactions as compared to the comparable period in 2013. Other noninterest income included changes in the cash surrender value of bank-owned life insurance which was $2.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to $2.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The increase in earnings on these bank-owned life insurance policies resulted primarily from the 2013 purchase of approximately $38 million in additional bank-owned life insurance with terms similar to our existing policies. The assets that support these policies are administered by the life insurance carriers and the income we receive (i.e., increases or decreases in the cash surrender value of the policies) on these policies is dependent upon the returns the insurance carriers are able to earn on the underlying investments that support the policies. Earnings on these policies generally are not taxable. Loan swap fees are also included in other noninterest income and decreased by $898,000 when compared to the year ended December 31, 2013 as a result of reductions in client demand for these products in the current rate environment. Also, during the year ended December 31, 2014, we recognized approximately $690,000 in gains in the market value of our other equity investments compared to $122,000 in the prior year's comparable period. These investments are equity investments in certain nonpublic private equity funds. As such, the income associated with these investments may fluctuate from period to period. With the recent acquisition of a 30% interest in Bankers Healthcare Group LLC, we believe that our other noninterest income will increase in 2015 in comparison to 2014 as the aggregate impact of the acquisition will be recognized in other noninterest income. Other noninterest income increased by $471,000 between 2013 and 2014. Certain fees on unused lines of credit are included in other noninterest income and can be attributed to approximately $300,000 of the increase between 2013 and 2014. 39 Noninterest Expense. The following is our noninterest expense for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 (in thousands): Years ended December 31, 2014-2013 Percent Increase Year ended December 31, 2013-2012 Percent Increase 2014 2013 (Decrease) 2012 (Decrease) Noninterest expense: Salaries and employee benefits: Salaries $ 48,935 $ 46,774 4.62 % $ 45,900 1.90 % Commissions 5,397 4,642 16.26 % 4,283 8.38 % Annual cash incentives 20,534 18,413 11.52 % 14,979 22.93 % Employee benefits and other 13,454 12,818 4.96 % 12,895 (0.60 %) Total salaries and employee benefits 88,320 82,647 6.86 % 78,057 5.88 % Equipment and occupancy 24,087 21,273 13.23 % 20,420 4.18 % Other real estate expense 664 3,113 (78.67 %) 11,544 (73.03 %) Marketing and business development 4,128 3,639 13.44 % 3,636 0.08 % Postage and supplies 2,392 2,250 6.31 % 2,380 (5.46 %) Amortization of intangibles 948 1,263 (24.94 %) 2,739 (53.89 %) Other noninterest expense: - Deposit related expenses 4,619 4,631 (0.26 %) 4,856 (4.63 %) Lending related expenses 4,132 2,926 41.22 % 3,768 (22.35 %) Investment sales expense 354 306 15.69 % 240 27.50 % Trust expenses 529 452 17.04 % 376 20.21 % FHLB restructuring - 877 (100.00 %) 2,093 (58.10 %) Administrative and other expenses 6,127 5,884 4.13 % 8,056 (26.96 %) Total other noninterest expense 15,761 15,076 4.54 % 19,389 (22.24 %) Total noninterest expense $ 136,300 $ 129,261 5.45 % $ 138,165 (6.44 %) The increase in total salaries and employee benefits expense in 2014 over 2013 and 2013 over 2012 is primarily related to annual merit increases awarded in January of each year and an increase in annual cash incentives as well as an increase in the number of employees in 2014 over 2013 and 2013 over 2012. Salaries and benefits will increase in 2015 with increased merit raises for the Company's workforce and the Company's continued recruiting effort to hire relationship bankers in our markets. We believe that cash and equity incentives are a valuable tool in motivating an employee base that is focused on providing our clients effective financial advice and increasing shareholder value. As a result, and unlike many other financial institutions, all of our non-commissioned associates participate in our annual cash incentive plan, and all of our associates participate in our equity compensation plans. Under the annual cash incentive plan, the targeted level of incentive payments requires achievement of a certain soundness threshold and a targeted level of revenues and earnings (subject to certain adjustments). To the extent that the soundness threshold is met and revenues and earnings are above or below the targeted amount, the aggregate incentive payments are increased or decreased. Historically, we have paid actual awards between 0% and 125% of the targeted bonus award. In 2014, our cash incentives represented 123% of targeted incentive compensation compared to 125% in 2013 and 102% in 2012. Employee benefits and other expenses include costs associated with the Pinnacle Financial Partners 401k plan, health insurance, and payroll taxes. Also, included in employee benefits and other expense for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, were approximately $5.3 million, $4.1 million and $4.4 million, respectively, of compensation expenses related to equity-based awards, primarily for restricted shares, restricted share units or performance unit awards. We have not issued stock options since 2008. Also included in employee benefits and other expenses are costs related to salary stock units issued to our senior executives for the year ended December 31, 2012. In connection with these awards, the executive officers received salary stock units which were settled in our common stock on a one-for-one basis. The program was terminated by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee (HRCC) of our Board of Directors effective June 30, 2012 following the redemption of the remaining preferred shares issued pursuant to the CPP. Concurrently, these senior executives' were eligible to participate in our annual cash incentive plan effective July 1, 2012. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014, no costs were incurred related to the salary stock units issued to our senior executives compared to approximately $1.0 million for 2012. 40 Equipment and occupancy expense for the year ended December 31, 2014 was 13.23% greater than in 2013 which were 4.18% greater than in 2012. One branch was added in the Knoxville MSA in each of the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2014. Additionally, we expanded our corporate headquarters in Nashville, Tennessee in 2014. An additional branch is expected to be added in the Knoxville MSA in 2015. Other real estate expense was $664,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to $3.1 million and $11.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Approximately $99,000, $2.8 million, and $9.5 million of the other real estate expense incurred during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, were net realized losses on dispositions and holding losses due to reduced valuations of OREO properties. The remaining other real estate expense in 2014, 2013 and 2012 consisted of carrying costs to maintain or improve the properties. During 2014, we had other real estate owned dispositions of $6.4 million compared to $8.7 million in 2013 and $30.2 million in 2012. Other real estate expense will fluctuate depending on market conditions as we maintain and market for sale various foreclosed properties. These properties could also be subject to future valuation adjustments as a result of updated appraisal information and deterioration in real estate values, thus causing additional fluctuations in our quarterly other real estate expense. Additionally, we will continue to incur expenses associated with maintenance costs and property taxes associated with these assets. Management's strategy has been to aggressively pursue disposition of nonperforming loans and other real estate owned in order to ultimately reduce the expense associated with carrying these nonperforming assets. Our disposition strategy generally has been to negotiate sales of foreclosed properties on a property-by-property basis, although we have also utilized both traditional and online auctions. Our use of online auctions has been primarily limited to individual residential homes and lots. During 2012, management utilized a bulk sale to dispose of approximately $9.0 million in nonperforming assets which consisted of both nonperforming loans and other real estate. No bulk sales occurred during 2013 or 2014, and the bulk sale strategy is not intended to be recurring; however, our nonperforming asset disposition strategy is reviewed on an on-going basis and could change in the future. Noninterest expense related to the amortization of intangibles relates primarily to the intangibles acquired in the Mid-America and Cavalry mergers. The core deposit intangibles are being amortized over ten years for Mid-America and were amortized over seven years for Cavalry, in each case using an accelerated method which anticipates the life of the underlying deposits to which the intangible is attributable. Amortization expense associated with the core deposit intangibles for Mid-America will approximate $691,000 to $825,000 per year for the next three years with lesser amounts for the remaining amortization period. The core deposit intangible related to Cavalry was fully amortized during the year ended December 31, 2013. Additionally, in connection with our acquisition of an insurance brokerage firm in July of 2008, we recorded a customer list intangible of $1,270,000 which is being amortized over 20 years on an accelerated basis. Amortization of the customer list intangible amounted to $91,000 for the year ended December 31, 2014 and $97,000 and $103,000 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Total other noninterest expenses decreased by 4.54% to $15.8 million during 2014 when compared to 2013 and by 22.2% to $15.1 million during 2013 when compared to 2012. Included in other noninterest expenses are deposit and lending related expenses, investment and trust sales expenses, FHLB restructuring expense and administrative expenses. During the second quarter of 2013, a $2.0 million allowance for off-balance sheet exposures was reversed against other noninterest expense as a result of the underlying letter of credit being funded. This $2.0 million expense reversal was partially offset by an approximately $877,000 restructuring charge related to the prepayment of $35.0 million in FHLB advances in the first quarter of 2013. Restructuring charges of $2.1 million related to the prepayment of $60.0 million in FHLB advances were incurred in 2012. Administrative and other expenses increased by 4.13% to $6.1 million during 2014 when compared to 2013. Approximately $967,000 of this increase relates to increased regulatory costs as well as a $404,000 increase in state franchise tax partly offset by an approximate $1.0 million decrease in legal fees. Administrative and other expenses decreased by 27.0% to $2.2 million during 2013 when compared to 2012. Approximately $974,000 of this decrease relates to decreased regulatory costs as well as an approximately $788,000 decrease in legal fees. Also included in administrative and other expenses are expenses related to contributions, audit fees, and corporate insurance policies. 41 Our efficiency ratio (ratio of noninterest expense to the sum of net interest income and noninterest income) was 55.5% in fiscal year 2014 compared to 58.0% in fiscal year 2013 and 67.0% in fiscal year 2012. The efficiency ratio measures the amount of expense that is incurred to generate a dollar of revenue. Declining other real estate owned expense positively impacted the efficiency ratio during the year ended December 31, 2014. Income Taxes. During the year ended December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial recorded income tax expense of $35.2 million. Our effective income tax rate was 33.3% for the year ended December 31, 2014, which is principally impacted by our investments in municipal securities, our real estate investment trust and bank-owned life insurance offset in part by non-deductible meals and entertainment. Preferred Stock Dividends and Preferred Stock Discount Accretion. Net income available for common stockholders included preferred stock dividends of $1,660,000 in 2012, and the accretion on the preferred stock discount of $2,153,000, for the year ended December 31, 2012. On December 12, 2008, we received $95.0 million from the sale of preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury as a result of our participation in the CPP. The Series A preferred stock we sold the U.S. Treasury paid cumulative dividends quarterly at a rate of 5 percent per annum. Pinnacle Financial redeemed the preferred shares issued to the Treasury under the CPP in two payments. During 2011, Pinnacle Financial redeemed 23,750 of the preferred shares for approximately $23.9 million. As a result of the partial redemption, Pinnacle Financial recognized approximately $719,000 of accelerated accretion of the remaining preferred stock discount. During 2012, Pinnacle Financial completed the redemption of the remaining 71,250 preferred shares outstanding to the Treasury for approximately $71.6 million. Concurrently, Pinnacle Financial accelerated the accretion of the remaining preferred stock discount of approximately $1.7 million during 2012. Additionally, Pinnacle Financial issued warrants to purchase 534,910 shares of common stock to the U.S. Treasury as a condition to its participation in the CPP. The warrants had an exercise price of $26.64 each, were immediately exercisable and expired 10 years from the date of issuance. On June 16, 2009, Pinnacle Financial completed the sale of 8,855,000 shares of its common stock in a public offering, resulting in net proceeds to Pinnacle Financial of approximately $109 million. As a result, and pursuant to the terms of the warrants, the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants was reduced by 50%, or 267,455 shares. During the third quarter of 2012, Pinnacle Financial repurchased all of the remaining outstanding warrants for $755,000. Financial Condition Our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2014 reflects an increase of $445.5 million in outstanding loans to $4.590 billion and $249.1 million in total deposits to $4.783 billion from December 31, 2013. Total assets were $6.018 billion at December 31, 2014 as compared to $5.564 billion at December 31, 2013. Loans. The composition of loans at December 31 for each of the past five years and the percentage (%) of each segment to total loans are summarized as follows (dollars in thousands): 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Commercial real estate - Mortgage $ 1,544,091 33.6 % $ 1,383,435 33.4 % $ 1,178,196 31.7 % $ 1,110,962 33.8 % $ 1,094,615 34.1 % Consumer real estate - Mortgage 721,158 15.7 % 695,616 16.8 % 679,926 18.3 % 695,745 21.1 % 705,487 22.0 % Construction and land development 322,466 7.0 % 316,191 7.6 % 313,552 8.4 % 274,248 8.3 % 331,261 10.3 % Commercial and industrial 1,784,729 38.9 % 1,605,547 38.7 % 1,446,578 39.0 % 1,145,735 34.8 % 1,012,091 31.5 % Consumer and other 217,583 4.7 % 143,704 3.5 % 93,910 2.6 % 64,661 2.0 % 68,986 2.1 % Total loans $ 4,590,027 100.0 % $ 4,144,493 100.0 % $ 3,712,162 100.0 % $ 3,291,351 100.0 % $ 3,212,440 100.0 % We have experienced growth in all segments of our portfolio. Significant growth occurred in the commercial real estate mortgage segment which includes owner-occupied commercial real estate loans. Owner-occupied commercial real estate is similar in many ways to our commercial and industrial lending in that these loans are generally made to businesses on the basis of the cash flows of the business rather than on the valuation of the real estate, however, the real estate is used as collateral. At December 31, 2014, approximately 49.5% of the outstanding principal balance of our commercial real estate mortgage loans was secured by owner-occupied properties. Additionally, commercial and industrial loans increased by 11.2% during the year as a result of businesses returning to a more normalized post recession state of operations. 42 Consumer real estate mortgages consist of first mortgage real estate loans, junior liens and home equity lines of credit. In total, we hold the first mortgage on $565.2 million of the mortgages within this portfolio. The remaining $155.9 million represent junior liens, or "second mortgages". We had net charge-offs of $684,000 and $635,000 related to consumer loan second mortgages during 2014 and 2013, respectively. At December 31, 2014, we had $73,000 of second mortgage consumer loans classified as nonperforming assets compared to $362,000 at December 31, 2013. In addition, approximately $17,000 and $156,000 of these second mortgages were past due at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Generally, for our second mortgage properties, should it become apparent to us that the first mortgage is habitually past due, classified as nonperforming or has other credit weaknesses, we will review our second mortgage to determine if the second mortgage should be considered for impairment. Typically, the second mortgage loan will be placed on nonperforming status or charged off if it appears the borrower's credit status has deteriorated. For borrowers where the first mortgage loan is held by another financial institution, we review credit histories of our home equity line of credit borrowers annually to determine if the borrower's credit score has decreased as a result of the borrower's inability to maintain their credit obligations in a satisfactory manner. The following table classifies our fixed and variable rate loans at December 31, 2014 according to contractual maturities of (1) one year or less, (2) after one year through five years, and (3) after five years. The table also classifies our variable rate loans pursuant to the contractual repricing dates of the underlying loans (dollars in thousands): Amounts at December 31, 2014 Fixed Rates Variable Rates (*) Totals At December 31, 2014 At December 31, 2013 Based on contractual maturity: Due within one year $ 213,150 $ 772,269 $ 985,419 21.5 % 24.8 % Due in one year to five years 1,137,628 1,033,726 2,171,354 47.3 % 42.2 % Due after five years 589,799 843,454 1,433,253 31.2 % 32.9 % Totals $ 1,940,577 $ 2,649,449 $ 4,590,026 100.0 % 100.0 % Based on contractual repricing dates: Daily floating rate $ - $ 1,398,545 $ 1,398,545 30.5 % 30.6 % Due within one year 213,150 470,413 683,563 14.9 % 16.8 % Due in one year to five years 1,137,628 491,735 1,629,363 35.5 % 32.3 % Due after five years 589,799 288,756 878,555 19.1 % 20.3 % Totals $ 1,940,577 $ 2,649,449 $ 4,590,026 100.0 % 100.0 % (*)Daily floating rate loans are tied to Pinnacle Bank's prime lending rate or a national interest rate index with the underlying loan rates changing in relation to changes in these indexes. Included in variable rate loans are $1.1 billion of loans which at December 31, 2014 were priced at their contractual floors with a weighted average rate of 4.27%. The weighted average contractual rate on these loans is 3.54%. As a result, interest income on these loans will not change until the contractual rate on the underlying loan exceeds the interest rate floor. The above information does not consider the impact of scheduled principal payments. Loan Origination Risk Management. We attempt to maintain lending policies and procedures in place that are designed to maximize loan income within an acceptable level of risk. Management reviews and approves these policies and procedures on a regular basis. A reporting system supplements the review process by providing management with frequent reports related to loan production, loan quality, concentrations of credit, loan delinquencies and non-performing loans. Diversification in the loan portfolio is a means of managing risk associated with fluctuations in economic conditions. Underwriting standards are designed to promote relationship banking rather than transactional banking. Our management examines current and projected cash flows to determine the expected ability of a borrower to repay its obligations as agreed. Commercial and industrial loans are primarily made based on the identified cash flows of the borrower and secondarily on the underlying collateral provided by the borrower. The cash flows of borrowers, however, may not be as expected, and the collateral securing these loans may fluctuate in value. Most commercial and industrial loans are secured by the assets being financed or other business assets such as accounts receivable, inventory or equipment and may incorporate a personal guarantee of business principals; however, some short-term loans may be made on an unsecured basis. In the case of loans secured by accounts receivable, the availability of funds for the repayment of these loans may be substantially dependent on the ability of the borrower to collect amounts due from its customers. 43 Commercial real estate loans are subject to underwriting standards and processes similar to commercial and industrial loans. These loans are viewed primarily as cash flow loans and secondarily as loans secured by real estate. Commercial real estate lending typically involves higher loan principal amounts, and the repayment of these loans is generally largely dependent on the successful operation of the property securing the loan or the business conducted on the property securing the loan. Commercial real estate loans may be adversely affected by conditions in the real estate markets or in the general economy. As detailed in the discussion of real estate loans below, the properties securing our commercial real estate portfolio generally are diverse in terms of type and industry. We believe this diversity helps reduce our exposure to adverse economic events that affect any single industry or type of real estate product. Management monitors and evaluates commercial real estate loans based on cash flow, collateral, geography and risk grade criteria. We also utilize third-party experts to provide insight and guidance about economic conditions and trends affecting market areas we serve. Given the positive economic outlook for the Nashville MSA and the Knoxville MSAs, we continue to make limited levels of loans for sound commercial construction and development projects. Construction loans are underwritten utilizing feasibility studies, independent appraisal reviews, sensitivity analysis of absorption and lease rates and financial analysis of the developers and property owners. Construction loans are generally based upon estimates of costs and value associated with the completed project, which may be inaccurate. Construction loans involve the disbursement of funds during construction with repayment substantially dependent on the success of the ultimate project. Sources of repayment for these types of loans may be pre-committed permanent loans from approved long-term lenders, sales of developed property or an interim loan commitment from us until permanent financing is obtained. These loans are closely monitored by on-site inspections and are considered to have higher risks than other real estate loans because their ultimate repayment is sensitive to interest rate changes, governmental regulation of real property, general economic conditions and the availability of long-term financing. We also originate consumer loans, including consumer real-estate loans, where we typically use a computer-based credit scoring analysis to supplement the underwriting process. To monitor and manage consumer loan risk, policies and procedures are developed and modified, as needed, jointly by line and staff personnel. This activity, coupled with relatively small loan amounts that are spread across many individual borrowers, seeks to minimize risk. Additionally, trend and outlook reports are reviewed by management on a regular basis. Underwriting standards for home equity loans are heavily influenced by statutory requirements. We also maintain an independent loan review department that reviews and validates the credit risk program on a periodic basis. Results of these reviews are presented to management and the audit committee. The loan review process complements and reinforces the risk identification and assessment decisions made by lenders and credit personnel, as well as our policies and procedures. Lending Concentrations. We periodically analyze our commercial loan portfolio to determine if a concentration of credit risk exists to any one or more industries. We use broadly accepted industry classification systems in order to classify borrowers into various industry classifications. We have a credit exposure (loans outstanding plus unfunded commitments) exceeding 25% of Pinnacle Bank's total risk-based capital to borrowers in the following industries at December 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): December 31, 2014 Outstanding Principal Balances Unfunded Commitments Total Exposure Percent of Total Risk-Based Capital Total Exposure at December 31, 2013 Lessors of nonresidential buildings $ 515,145 $ 57,475 $ 572,620 78.3 % $ 515,240 Lessors of residential buildings 292,721 42,678 335,399 44.5 % 270,773 44 Performing Loans in Past Due Status. The following table is a summary of our accruing loans that were past due between 30 and 90 days and greater than 90 days as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 (dollars in thousands): December 31, Accruing loans past due 30 to 90 days: 2014 2013 Commercial real estate mortgage $ 2,232 $ 2,561 Consumer real estate mortgage 2,391 2,215 Construction and land development 421 4,839 Commercial and industrial 3,431 1,847 Consumer and other 9,532 1,488 Total accruing loans past due 30 to 90 days $ 18,007 $ 12,950 Accruing loans past due 90 days or more: Commercial real estate mortgage $ - $ 2,232 Consumer real estate mortgage 146 - Construction and land development - - Commercial and industrial 5 825 Consumer and other 172 289 Total accruing loans past due 90 days or more $ 323 $ 3,346 Ratios: Accruing loans past due 30 to 90 days as a percentage of total loans 0.39 % 0.31 % Accruing loans past due 90 days or more as a percentage of total loans 0.01 % 0.08 % Total accruing loans in past due status as a percentage of total loans 0.40 % 0.39 % Potential Problem Loans. Potential problem loans amounted to approximately $83.0 million, or 1.8% of total loans outstanding at December 31, 2014, compared to $65.0 million, or 1.5% of total loans outstanding at December 31, 2013. Potential problem loans, which are not included in nonperforming loans, represent those loans with a well-defined weakness and where information about possible credit problems of borrowers has caused management to have doubts about the borrower's ability to comply with present repayment terms. This definition is believed to be substantially consistent with the standards established by Pinnacle Bank's primary regulators, for loans classified as substandard or worse, but not considered nonperforming loans. Approximately $3.3 million of potential problem loans were past due at least 30 but less than 90 days as of December 31, 2014. Non-Performing Assets and Troubled Debt Restructurings. At December 31, 2014, we had $27.9 million in nonperforming assets compared to $33.4 million at December 31, 2013. Included in nonperforming assets were $16.7 million in nonperforming loans and $11.2 million in other real estate owned at December 31, 2014 and $18.2 million in nonperforming loans and $15.2 million in other real estate owned at December 31, 2013. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, there were $8.4 million and $19.6 million, respectively, of troubled debt restructurings that were performing as of the restructured date and remain in a performing status. All nonaccruing loans are reassigned to a special assets officer who was not responsible for originating the loan. The special assets officer is responsible for developing an action plan designed to minimize our future losses. Typically, these special assets officers review our loan files, interview prior officers assigned to the relationship, meet with borrowers, inspect collateral, reappraise collateral and/or consult with legal counsel. The special assets officer then recommends an action plan to a committee of senior associates including lenders and workout specialists, which could include foreclosing on collateral, restructuring the loan, issuing demand letters or other actions. We discontinue the accrual of interest income when (1) there is a significant deterioration in the financial condition of the borrower and full repayment of principal and interest is not expected or (2) the principal or interest is more than 90 days past due, unless the loan is both well-secured and in the process of collection. During 2014, we recognized $256,000 of interest income from nonperforming loans, reflecting cash payments received from the borrower and our belief, at the time of payment, that the underlying collateral supported the carrying amount of the loans. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we recognized no interest income from loans that were classified as nonperforming from cash payments received from those borrowers. Due to the weakening credit status of a borrower, we may elect to formally restructure certain loans to facilitate a repayment plan that seeks to minimize the potential losses, if any, that we might incur. These loans are considered troubled debt restructurings. If on nonaccruing status as of the date of restructuring, any restructured loan is included in the nonperforming loan balancesas discussed above and is classified as an impaired loan. Loans that have been restructured that are on accrual status as of the restructure date are not included in nonperforming loans; however, such loans are still considered impaired. 45 At December 31, 2014, we owned $11.2 million in other real estate which we had acquired, usually through foreclosure, from borrowers compared to $15.2 million at December 31, 2013; the majority of this real estate is located within our principal markets. We categorize other real estate owned into three types: developed lots, undeveloped land, and other. Included in the "other" category are primarily condominiums, office buildings and residential homes that are not new construction. The following table shows the amounts of our other real estate owned in such categories (in thousands): December 31, 2014 2013 Developed lots $ 275 $ 1,296 Undeveloped land 9,240 11,564 Other 1,671 2,366 $ 11,186 $ 15,226 The following table is a summary of our nonperforming assets and troubled debt restructurings at December 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): At December 31, 2013 Payments, Sales and Reductions (2) Foreclosures (3) Inflows (4) At December 31, 2014 Nonperforming assets: Nonperforming loans (1) : Commercial real estate mortgage $ 9,017 $ (5,627 ) $ (1,572 ) $ 2,495 $ 4,313 Consumer real estate mortgage 5,289 (5,991 ) (815 ) 5,975 4,458 Construction and land development 1,070 (803 ) - 4,906 5,173 Commercial and industrial 2,565 (4,535 ) - 3,579 1,609 Consumer and other 242 (3,958 ) (2,263 ) 7,132 1,153 Total nonperforming loans (1) 18,183 (20,914 ) (4,650 ) 24,087 16,706 Other real estate owned 15,226 (8,690 ) 4,650 - 11,186 Total nonperforming assets 33,409 (29,604 ) - 24,087 27,892 Troubled debt restructurings: Commercial real estate mortgage 13,453 (13,453 ) - - - Consumer real estate mortgage 3,984 (107 ) - 49 3,926 Construction and land development 113 (113 ) - 436 436 Commercial and industrial 1,820 (1,675 ) - 3,628 3,773 Consumer and other 276 (14 ) - 13 275 Total troubled debt restructurings 19,646 (15,362 ) - 4,126 8,410 Total nonperforming assets and troubled debt restructurings $ 53,055 $ (44,966 ) $ - $ 28,213 $ 36,302 Ratios: Nonperforming loans to total loans 0.44 % 0.36 % Nonperforming assets to total loans plus other real estate owned 0.88 % 0.61 % Nonperforming assets plus troubled debt restructurings to total loans and other real estate owned 1.28 % 0.79 % Nonperforming assets, potential problem loans and troubled debt restructurings to Pinnacle Bank Tier I capital and allowance for loan losses 19.02 % 18.09 % Classified Asset Ratio (Pinnacle Bank) (5) 18.50 % 18.10 % Allowance for loan loss coverage ratio 373.8 % 403.2 % ______________________ (1) Approximately $10.2 million and $10.8 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, of nonperforming loans included above are currently paying pursuant to their contractual terms. (2) Payments, sales and reductions in nonperforming loans are primarily attributable to payments we have collected from borrowers, charge-offs of recorded balances and nonaccrual loans that have been returned to accruing status during the year ended December 31, 2014. Payments, sales and reductions in other real estate owned represent either the sale, disposition or valuation adjustment on properties which had previously been foreclosed upon or acquired by deed in lieu of foreclosure. Payments, sales and reductions in troubled debt restructurings are those loans which were previously restructured whereby the borrower has reduced the outstanding balance of the loan or re-defaulted on the terms of the loan and therefore been charged-off. (3) Foreclosures in nonperforming loans and troubled debt restructurings are representative of transfers of balances to OREO during the year ended December 31, 2014. (4) Inflows in nonperforming loans are attributable to loans where we have discontinued the accrual of interest at some point during the year ended December 31, 2014. Increases in OREO represent the value of properties that have been foreclosed upon or acquired by deed in lieu of foreclosure during 2014. Increases in troubled debt restructurings are those loans where we have granted the borrower a concession due to the deteriorating financial condition of the borrower during 2014. These concessions can be in the form of a reduced interest rate, extended maturity date or other matters where we were unable to receive fair compensation for the permitted concession. (5) Classified assets as a percentage of Tier 1 capital plus allowance for loan losses. 46 Allowance for Loan Losses (allowance). We maintain the allowance at a level that our management deems appropriate to adequately cover the probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio. As of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013, our allowance for loan losses was $67.4 million and $68.0 million, respectively, which our management deemed to be adequate at each of the respective dates. The decrease in the allowance for loan losses in 2014 as compared to 2013 is primarily the result of improving overall credit metrics within our portfolio, including the reduction in net charge-offs and an increase in our coverage ratio. Our allowance for loan loss as a percentage of total loans has decreased from 1.64% at December 31, 2013 to 1.47% at December 31, 2014. The judgments and estimates associated with our allowance determination are described under "Critical Accounting Estimates" above. The following table sets forth, based on management's best estimate, the allocation of the allowance to types of loans as well as the unallocated portion as of December 31 for each of the past five years and the percentage of loans in each category to total loans (in thousands): December 31, 2014 2013 2012 2010 2009 Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Commercial real estate Mortgage $ 22,202 33.64 % $ 21,372 33.40 % $ 19,634 31.70 % $ 23,397 33.80 % $ 19,252 34.10 % Consumer real estate Mortgage 5,424 15.71 % 8,355 16.80 % 8,762 18.30 % 10,302 21.10 % 9,898 22.00 % Construction and land development 5,724 7.03 % 7,235 7.60 % 9,164 8.50 % 12,040 8.30 % 19,122 10.30 % Commercial and industrial 29,167 38.88 % 25,134 38.70 % 24,738 39.00 % 20,789 34.80 % 21,426 31.50 % Consumer and other 1,570 4.74 % 1,632 3.50 % 1,094 2.50 % 1,125 2.00 % 1,874 2.10 % Unallocated 3,272 NA 4,242 NA 6,025 NA 6,322 NA 11,003 NA Total allowance for loan losses $ 67,359 100.00 % $ 67,970 100.00 % $ 69,417 100.00 % $ 73,975 100.00 % $ 82,575 100.00 % The decrease in the overall allowance for loan losses is due to the improvement of our loan portfolio and the reduction of nonperforming loans and net charge-offs, which is largely influenced by the overall improvement in the economies in our market areas. The allocation by category is determined based on the assigned risk rating, if applicable, and environmental factors applicable to each category of loans. For impaired loans, those loans are reviewed for a specific allowance allocation. As we have worked to rehabilitate impaired loans and total impaired loans has decreased, the specific allocations for impaired loans have decreased. Specific valuation allowances related to impaired loans were approximately $2.9 million at December 31, 2014 compared to $4.0 million at December 31, 2013. The decrease in the specific allocation for impaired loans between 2013 and 2014 was due to many factors, including the resolution of a number of troubled assets. The unallocated category is intended to allow for losses that are inherent in our portfolio that we have not yet identified or that are attributable to a specific risk factor and for modeling imprecision. Additional information on the allocation of the allowance between performing and impaired loans is provided in Note 6 to the "Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements." 47 The following is a summary of changes in the allowance for loan losses for each of the years in the five year period ended December 31, 2014 and the ratio of the allowance for loan losses to total loans as of the end of each period (in thousands): 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Balance at beginning of period $ 67,970 $ 69,417 $ 73,975 $ 82,575 $ 91,959 Provision for loan losses 3,635 7,857 5,569 21,798 53,695 Charged-off loans: - - Commercial real estate - Mortgage (875 ) (4,123 ) (4,667 ) (3,044 ) (9,041 ) Consumer real estate - Mortgage (1,621 ) (2,250 ) (6,731 ) (5,076 ) (6,769 ) Construction and land development (301 ) (1,351 ) (2,530 ) (10,157 ) (27,526 ) Commercial and industrial (3,095 ) (8,159 ) (4,612 ) (15,360 ) (23,555 ) Consumer and other (1,811 ) (1,369 ) (1,117 ) (1,213 ) (652 ) Total charged-off loans (7,703 ) (17,252 ) (19,657 ) (34,850 ) (67,543 ) Recoveries of previously charged-off loans: Commercial real estate - Mortgage 538 500 285 116 343 Consumer real estate - Mortgage 671 1,209 818 495 377 Construction and land development 277 1,464 1,155 1,530 2,618 Commercial and industrial 1,484 4,531 7,175 2,167 874 Consumer and other loans 487 244 97 144 252 Total recoveries of previously charged-off loans 3,457 7,948 9,530 4,452 4,464 Net charge-offs (4,246 ) (9,304 ) (10,127 ) (30,398 ) (63,079 ) Balance at end of period $ 67,359 $ 67,970 $ 69,417 $ 73,975 $ 82,575 Ratio of allowance for loan losses to total loans outstanding at end of period 1.47 % 1.64 % 1.87 % 2.25 % 2.57 % Ratio of net charge-offs to average loans outstanding for the period 0.10 % 0.24 % 0.29 % 0.92 % 1.96 % As noted in our critical accounting policies, management assesses the adequacy of the allowance at the end of each calendar quarter. This assessment includes procedures to estimate the allowance and test the adequacy and appropriateness of the resulting balance. The level of the allowance is based upon management's evaluation of the loan portfolios, past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, the views of Pinnacle Bank's regulators, adverse situations that may affect the borrower's ability to repay (including the timing of future payments), the estimated value of any underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, economic conditions, historical loss experience, industry and peer bank loan quality indications and other pertinent factors. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires material estimates including the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans that may be susceptible to significant change. Investments. Our investment portfolio, consisting primarily of Federal agency bonds, state and municipal securities and mortgage-backed securities, amounted to $770.7 million and $733.3 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Our investment to asset ratio has decreased from 13.2% at December 31, 2013 to 12.8% at December 31, 2014. Over the last several years we have reduced the ratio of investments to total assets and the absolute level of investment securities on our balance sheet as we have allocated more funding to loans and reduced our reliance on revenues from our investment securities. Given we believe that interest rates will increase over the next few years, we have elected to reduce the ratio of our investment securities portfolio to total assets in an effort to reduce the interest rate risks from this asset class which is dominated by fixed rate securities. By doing so, we are also reducing the impact of rising rates on our accumulated comprehensive income (loss) accounts as the concurrent devaluation of our investment securities portfolio would impact our stockholders' equity negatively during a rising rate environment. As rates increase and the aforementioned interest rate risks reduce, we may elect to allocate more funding to our investment securities portfolio. Our investment portfolio serves many purposes including serving as a stable source of income, collateral for public funds and as a potential liquidity source. A summary of certain aspects of our investment portfolio at December 31, 2014 and 2013 follows: December 31, 2014 2013 Weighted average life 4.55 years 5.22 years Effective duration 2.81% 4.61 % Weighted average coupon 3.31% 3.50 % Tax equivalent yield 2.81% 3.15 % 48 The following table shows the carrying value of investment securities according to contractual maturity classifications of (1) one year or less, (2) after one year through five years, (3) after five years through ten years, and (4) after ten years. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities of mortgage-backed securities because the mortgages underlying the securities may be called or prepaid with or without penalty. Therefore, these securities are not included in the maturity categories but are listed below these categories as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): U.S. Treasury securities U.S. government agency securities State and Municipal securities Corporate securities Totals Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield At December 31, 2014: Securities available-for-sale: Due in one year or less $ - 0.0 % $ 3,002 0.34 % $ 4,393 4.65 % $ 505 0.96 % $ 7,900 2.77 % Due in one year to five years - 0.0 % 7,667 0.90 % 12,916 5.34 % 10,159 4.54 % 30,742 0.95 % Due in five years to ten years - 0.0 % 67,100 2.27 % 89,367 5.90 % 500 1.23 % 156,967 4.34 % Due after ten years - 0.0 % 35,687 2.76 % 31,902 5.06 % - - % 67,589 0.95 % $ - 0.0 % $ 113,456 2.28 % $ 138,578 5.62 % $ 11,164 4.23 % 263,198 4.12 % Mortgage-backed securities 455,839 2.31 % Asset-backed securities 13,018 0.60 % $ 732,055 1.48 % Securities held-to-maturity: Due in one year or less $ - 0.0 % $ - 0.0 % $ 1,947 1.38 % $ - 0.0 % $ 1,947 0.90 % Due in one year to five years - 0.0 % - 0.0 % 11,775 0.44 % - 0.0 % 11,775 0.29 % Due in five years to ten years - 0.0 % - 0.0 % 15,973 2.62 % - 0.0 % 15,973 1.71 % Due after ten years - 0.0 % - 0.0 % 9,094 3.80 % - 0.0 % 9,094 2.60 % $ - 0.0 % $ - 0.0 % $ 38,789 2.59 % $ - 0.0 % $ 38,789 1.71 % Mortgage-backed securities - 0.0 % Asset-backed securities - 0.0 % Total held-for-sale securities $ 38,789 1.71 % U.S. Treasury securities U.S. government agency securities State and Municipal securities Corporate securities Totals Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield At December 31, 2013: Securities available-for-sale: Due in one year or less $ - 0.0 % $ 500 0.26 % $ 3,015 5.90 % $ - 0.0 % $ 3,515 5.10 % Due in one year to five years - 0.0 % 10,325 0.59 % 16,283 5.09 % 1,635 0.81 % 28,243 3.20 % Due in five years to ten years - 0.0 % 41,799 2.18 % 76,893 5.89 % 9,594 4.82 % 128,286 4.60 % Due after ten years - 0.0 % 51,249 2.66 % 52,220 5.46 % - 0.0 % 103,469 4.07 % $ - 0.0 % $ 103,873 1.58 % $ 148,411 5.39 % $ 11,229 4.24 % 263,513 4.25 % Mortgage-backed securities 412,936 2.70 % Asset-backed securities 17,007 1.42 % $ 693,456 3.26 % Securities held-to-maturity: Due in one year or less $ - 0.0 % $ - 0.0 % $ 317 1.64 % $ - 0.0 % $ 317 1.64 % Due in one year to five years - 0.0 % - 0.0 % 12,097 1.65 % - 0.0 % 12,097 1.65 % Due in five years to ten years - 0.0 % - 0.0 % 15,105 2.39 % - 0.0 % 15,105 2.39 % Due after ten years - 0.0 % - 0.0 % 12,277 3.82 % - 0.0 % 12,277 3.82 % $ - 0.0 % $ - 0.0 % $ 39,796 2.70 % $ - 0.0 % $ 39,796 2.70 % Mortgage-backed securities - 0.0 % Asset-backed securities - 0.0 % Total held-for-sale securities $ 39,796 2.70 % We computed yields using coupon interest, adding discount accretion or subtracting premium amortization, as appropriate, on a ratable basis over the life of each security. We computed the weighted average yield for each maturity range using the acquisition price of each security in that range. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, approximately 85% and 83%, respectively, of our state and municipal securities were generally callable by the issuer. 49 During 2013, approximately $40.0 million of available-for-sale securities were transferred to the held-to-maturity portfolio. The transfers of debt securities into the held-to-maturity category from the available-for-sale category were made at fair value at the date of transfer. The unrealized holding gain or loss at the date of transfer was retained in other comprehensive income and in the carrying value of the held-to-maturity securities. Such amounts will be amortized to interest income over the remaining life of the securities. Deposits and Other Borrowings. We had approximately $4.783 billion of deposits at December 31, 2014 compared to $4.533 billion at December 31, 2013. Our deposits consist of noninterest and interest-bearing demand accounts, savings accounts, money market accounts and time deposits. Additionally, we entered into agreements with certain customers to sell certain of our securities under agreements to repurchase the security the following day. These agreements (which are typically associated with comprehensive treasury management programs for our commercial clients and provide the client with short-term returns for their excess funds) amounted to $94.0 million at December 31, 2014 and $70.5 million at December 31, 2013. Additionally, at December 31, 2014, we had borrowed $195.5 million in advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati (FHLB Cincinnati) compared to $90.6 million at December 31, 2013. Generally, we have classified our funding as core funding or non-core funding. Core funding consists of all deposits other than time deposits issued in denominations of $250,000 or greater. All other funding is deemed to be non-core. Non-core is further segmented between relationship based non-core funding and wholesale funding. The following table represents the balances of our deposits and other funding and the percentage of each type to the total at December 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): December 31, 2014 Percent December 31, 2013 Percent Core funding: Noninterest-bearing deposit accounts $ 1,321,053 25.56 % $ 1,167,763 24.35 % Interest-bearing demand accounts 989,915 19.15 % 870,662 18.16 % Savings and money market accounts 1,751,698 33.89 % 1,655,087 34.52 % Time deposit accounts less than $250,000 318,511 6.16 % 408,520 8.52 % Total core funding 4,381,177 84.77 % 4,102,032 85.54 % Non-core funding: Relationship based non-core funding: Reciprocating NOW deposits (1) 15,535 0.30 % 13,633 0.28 % Reciprocating money market accounts (1) 273,259 5.29 % 309,276 6.45 % Reciprocating time deposits (1) 43,355 0.84 % 32,689 0.68 % Other time deposits 69,278 1.34 % 77,838 1.62 % Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 93,995 1.82 % 70,465 1.47 % Total relationship based non-core funding 495,422 9.58 % 503,901 10.51 % Wholesale funding: Public funds - 0.00 % - Brokered deposits - 0.00 % - 0.00 % Federal Home Loan Bank advances 195,476 3.78 % 90,637 1.89 % Holding Company loan 13,682 0.26 % 16,182 0.34 % Subordinated debt 82,476 1.60 % 82,476 1.72 % Total wholesale funding 291,634 5.64 % 189,295 3.95 % Total non-core funding 787,056 15.23 % 693,196 14.46 % Totals $ 5,168,233 100.00 % $ 4,795,228 100.00 % _________________ (1) The reciprocating deposits consist of deposits we receive from a bank network (the CDARS network) in connection with deposits of our customers in excess of our FDIC coverage limit that we place with the CDARS network. Our funding policies limit the amount of non-core funding we can utilize. Periodically, we may exceed our policy limitations, at which time management will develop plans to bring our core funding ratios back within compliance. As noted in the table above, our core funding as a percentage of total funding decreased from 85.5% at December 31, 2013 to 84.8% at December 31, 2014. Continuing to grow our core deposit base remains a key strategic objective of our firm. Our current growth plans contemplate that we may increase our non-core funding amounts from current levels, but we do not currently anticipate that such increases will exceed our internal policies. 50 The amount of time deposits as of December 31, 2014 amounted to $431.1 million. The following table shows our time deposits in denominations of under $100,000 and those of denominations of $100,000 and greater by category based on time remaining until maturity of (1) three months or less, (2) over three but less than six months, (3) over six but less than twelve months and (4) over twelve months and the weighted average rate for each category (in thousands): Balances Weighted Avg. Rate Denominations less than $100,000 Three months or less $ 39,948 0.34 % Over three but less than six months 35,247 0.38 % Over six but less than twelve months 39,583 0.42 % Over twelve months 34,233 0.84 % 149,011 0.49 % Denominations $100,000 and greater Three months or less 75,700 0.33 % Over three but less than six months 83,197 0.41 % Over six but less than twelve months 64,783 0.53 % Over twelve months 58,453 1.02 % 282,133 0.54 % Totals $ 431,144 0.52 % Subordinated debt and other borrowings. Pinnacle Bank is a member of the FHLB Cincinnati. As a result, Pinnacle Bank receives advances from the FHLB, pursuant to the terms of various borrowing agreements, which assist it in the funding of its home mortgage and commercial real estate loan portfolios. Under the borrowing agreements with the FHLB, Pinnacle Bank has pledged certain qualifying residential mortgage loans and, pursuant to a blanket lien, all qualifying commercial mortgage loans as collateral. At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Bank had received advances from the FHLB totaling $195.4 million. Additionally, Pinnacle Financial recognized a discount on FHLB advances in conjunction with previous acquisitions. The remaining discount was $91,000 at December 31, 2014. At December 31, 2013, the scheduled maturities of these advances and interest rates are as follows (in thousands): Scheduled Maturities Weighted Average Interest Rates (1) 2015 $ 180,000 0.16 % 2016 15,000 0.18 % 2017 - 0.00 % 2018 8 2.00 % 2019 - 0.00 % Thereafter 378 2.43 % $ 195,386 Weighted average interest rate 0.17 % _________________ (1) Some FHLB advances include variable interest rates and could increase in the future. The table reflects rates in effect as of December 31, 2014. As part of our asset liability policy, we seek to manage our interest rate risk and we utilize various strategies in order to achieve our goals. During 2013, Pinnacle Bank restructured approximately $35.0 million of FHLB advances to reduce our ongoing funding costs. This restructuring was undertaken because the weighted average interest rate on the FHLB advances was 1.79%, significantly higher than the rate for replacement funding. Other than the interest rates, the terms of the replacement advances are similar to those of the advances restructured. This restructuring resulted in a one-time charge of $877,000 during the first quarter of 2013. A similar restructuring was undertaken in 2012. Approximately $60.0 million of FHLB advances were restructured to reduce the rate from 1.91% to a lower rate. A charge of $2.1 million was incurred related to this restructuring. We did not restructure any FHLB advances during 2014 and do not currently have intentions to restructure the remaining FHLB advances. 51 We have four wholly-owned subsidiaries that are statutory business trusts (the Trusts). We are the sole sponsor of the Trusts and acquired each Trust's common securities. The Trusts were created for the exclusive purpose of issuing 30-year capital trust preferred securities and used the proceeds to acquire junior subordinated debentures (Subordinated Debentures) issued by Pinnacle Financial. The sole assets of the Trusts are the Subordinated Debentures. At December 31, 2014, our $2,476,000 investment in the Trusts is included in other investments in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and our $82,476,000 obligation is reflected as subordinated debt. Date Established Maturity Common Securities Subordinated Debentures Floating Interest Rate Interest Rate at December 31, 2014 Trust I December 29, 2003 December 30, 2033 $ 310,000 $ 10,000,000 Libor + 2.80% 3.04 % Trust II September 15, 2005 September 30, 2035 619,000 20,000,000 Libor + 1.40% 1.66 % Trust III September 7, 2006 September 30, 2036 619,000 20,000,000 Libor + 1.65% 1.91 % Trust IV October 31, 2007 September 30, 2037 928,000 30,000,000 Libor + 2.85% 3.09 % The securities bear a floating interest rate based on a spread over 3-month LIBOR which is set each quarter. Distributions are payable quarterly. The Trust Preferred Securities are subject to mandatory redemption upon repayment of the Subordinated Debentures at their stated maturity date or their earlier redemption in an amount equal to their liquidation amount plus accumulated and unpaid distributions to the date of redemption. We guarantee the payment of distributions and payments for redemption or liquidation of the Trust Preferred Securities to the extent of funds held by the Trusts. Pinnacle Financial's obligations under the Subordinated Debentures together with the guarantee and other back-up obligations, in the aggregate, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by Pinnacle Financial of the obligations of the Trusts under the Trust Preferred Securities. The Subordinated Debentures are unsecured; bear interest at a rate equal to the rates paid by the Trusts on the Trust Preferred Securities and mature on the same dates as those noted above for the Trust Preferred Securities. Interest is payable quarterly. We may defer the payment of interest at any time for a period not exceeding 20 consecutive quarters provided that the deferral period does not extend past the stated maturity. During any such deferral period, distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities will also be deferred and our ability to pay dividends on our common shares will be restricted. The Trust Preferred Securities may be redeemed prior to maturity at our option. The Trust Preferred Securities may also be redeemed at any time in whole (but not in part) in the event of unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that result in (1) the Trust becoming subject to federal income tax on income received on the Subordinated Debentures, (2) interest payable by the parent company on the Subordinated Debentures becoming non-deductible for federal tax purposes, (3) the requirement for the Trust to register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or (4) loss of the ability to treat the Trust Preferred Securities as "Tier I capital" under the Federal Reserve capital adequacy guidelines. On June 15, 2012, Pinnacle Financial entered into a loan agreement with an unaffiliated bank for $25 million. Pinnacle Financial's borrowings under the Loan Agreement bear interest at a LIBOR rate generally defined as the sum of (i) the average of the offered rates of interest quoted in the London Inter-Bank Eurodollar Market for U.S. Dollar deposits with prime banks (as published by Reuters or other commercially available source) for three months (all as selected by the Company), and (ii) an applicable margin. The applicable margin under the Loan Agreement ranges from 2.25% (225 basis points) to 3.00% (300 basis points) depending on the total aggregate principal amount outstanding under the loan agreement. At December 31, 2014, the rate was 2.6875%. We began making quarterly principal payments of $625,000 on September 30, 2012, and the loan matures on June 15, 2017. We are permitted to prepay all or a portion of the principal amount outstanding under the Loan Agreement without penalty (in minimum aggregate amounts of $100,000) at any time so long as no event of default or unmatured event of default has occurred and is continuing. At December 31, 2014, the amount outstanding on this obligation was $13.7 million. On October 2, 2013, the Loan Agreement was amended to permit Pinnacle Financial to pay dividends on its capital stock so long as no event of default was then existing or would be caused by the payment of such dividends. On February 4, 2015, Pinnacle Bank entered into a loan agreement with an unaffiliated bank for $40 million. Pinnacle Bank's borrowings under the loan agreement bear interest at rates at the greater of (i) zero percent (0%) and (ii) the one-month LIBOR rate quoted by the lender (as published by Reuters), plus in each case an applicable margin. The applicable margin under the loan agreement ranges from 1.65% (165 basis points) to 1.95% (195 basis points) depending on the total aggregate principal amount outstanding under the loan agreement. The initial applicable margin is 1.95% (195 basis points). 52 Capital Resources. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, our stockholders' equity amounted to $802.7 million and $723.7 million, respectively. Substantially all of the increase in stockholders' equity resulted from net income from operations. On December 12, 2008, we issued 95,000 shares of preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury for $95 million pursuant to the CPP. Additionally, we issued 534,910 common stock warrants to the U.S. Treasury as a condition to our participation in the CPP. Proceeds from this sale of preferred stock were contributed to Pinnacle Bank for general corporate purposes, including its lending activities. On June 16, 2009, we completed the sale of 8,855,000 shares of our common stock in a public offering, resulting in net proceeds to Pinnacle Financial of approximately $109.0 million. As a result, and pursuant to the terms of the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with our participation in the CPP, the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the warrant issued to the U.S. Treasury in connection with the CPP was reduced by 50%, or 267,455 shares. During the fourth quarter of 2011, Pinnacle Financial repurchased 25% of the preferred shares originally issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP for approximately $23.9 million. During the second quarter of 2012, Pinnacle Financial redeemed the remaining 71,250 of the preferred shares originally issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP for approximately $71.6 million. The accrued dividend costs and the accretion of the discount recorded on the preferred stock totaled $3,814,000 during the year ended December 31, 2012. During the third quarter of 2012, Pinnacle Financial repurchased, for $755,000, the common stock warrants issued in connection with our participation in the CPP. At the time of the repurchase, the warrants had a carrying value of $3.3 million, therefore, our additional paid in capital increased $2.5 million due to the difference between the initial valuation and the repurchase amount. At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Bank's Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 11.4%, the total risk-based capital ratio was 12.6% and the leverage ratio was 10.6%, compared to 11.3%, 12.6% and 10.5% at December 31, 2013, respectively. At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial's Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio was 12.1%, the total risk-based capital ratio was 13.4% and the leverage ratio was 11.3%, compared to 11.8%, 13.0% and 10.9% at December 31, 2013, respectively. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC approved final rules that substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Pinnacle Bank and Pinnacle Financial. The final rules which became effective on January 1, 2015, implement the regulatory capital reforms of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision reflected in "Basel III: A Global Regulatory Framework for More Resilient Banks and Banking Systems" (Basel III) and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under these rules, the leverage and risk-based capital ratios of bank holding companies may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The final rules include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios. Moreover, these rules refine the definition of what constitutes "capital" for purposes of calculating those ratios, including the definitions of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to bank holding companies and banks subject to the rules are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. The rules also establish a "capital conservation buffer" of 2.5% (to be phased in over three years) above the new regulatory minimum risk-based capital ratios, and result in the following minimum ratios once the capital conservation buffer is fully phased in: (i) a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 7%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. The capital conservation buffer requirement is to be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and would increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if capital levels fall below minimum plus the buffer amounts. These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. Under these new rules, Tier 1 capital will generally consist of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings, limited amounts of minority interest in the form of additional Tier 1 capital instruments, and non-cumulative preferred stock and related surplus, subject to certain eligibility standards, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions. Cumulative preferred stock and trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010, will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital, but such securities issued prior to May 19, 2010, including in the case of bank holding companies with less than $15.0 billion in total assets, trust preferred securities issued prior to that date, will continue to count as Tier 1 capital subject to certain limitations. The definition of Tier 2 capital is generally unchanged for most banking organizations, subject to certain new eligibility criteria. 53 Common equity Tier 1 capital will generally consist of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings plus limited amounts of minority interest in the form of common stock, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions. The final rules allow banks and their holding companies with less than $250 billion in assets a one-time opportunity to opt-out of a requirement to include unrealized gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income in their capital calculation. Pinnacle Financial will likely choose to opt-out of this requirement. Applying these rules, at December 31, 2014 Pinnacle Bank's common equity Tier 1 capital ratio would have been 10.8%, its Tier 1 risk based capital ratio would have been 10.8%, its total risk based capital ratio would have been 12.1% and its Tier 1 leverage ratio would have been 10.6%. Pinnacle Financial's respective ratios would have been 10.1%, 11.5%, 12.8% and 11.3%, which are in excess of the minimum requirements. Dividends. Under Tennessee banking law, Pinnacle Bank is subject to restrictions on the payment of dividends to Pinnacle Financial which are similar to those applicable to national banks. Pursuant to Tennessee banking law, Pinnacle Bank may not, without the prior consent of the Commissioner of the TDFI, pay any dividends to Pinnacle Financial in a calendar year in excess of the total of Pinnacle Bank's net profits for that year plus the retained profits for the preceding two years. As of December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Bank could pay approximately $116.5 million of dividends to Pinnacle Financial without prior approval of the Commissioner of the TDFI. Pinnacle Financial initiated a quarterly dividend of $0.08 per share of common stock in the fourth quarter of 2013. Pinnacle Financial has since declared five subsequent quarterly dividend payments including the declaration, on January 20, 2015, by Pinnacle Financial Partner's Board of Directors of a $0.12 per share dividend to be paid on February 27, 2015 to shareholders of record as of the close of business on February 6, 2015. This increase represents $0.04 or 50%, when compared to the quarterly dividend paid in the fourth quarter of 2014. The amount and timing of any future dividend payments to common shareholders will be subject to the discretion of Pinnacle Financial's Board of Directors. Market and Liquidity Risk Management Our objective is to manage assets and liabilities to provide a satisfactory, consistent level of profitability within the framework of established liquidity, loan, investment, borrowing, and capital policies. Our Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO) is charged with the responsibility of monitoring these policies, which are designed to ensure acceptable composition of asset/liability mix. Two critical areas of focus for ALCO are interest rate sensitivity and liquidity risk management. Interest Rate Sensitivity. In the normal course of business, we are exposed to market risk arising from fluctuations in interest rates. ALCO measures and evaluates the interest rate risk so that we can meet customer demands for various types of loans and deposits. ALCO determines the most appropriate amounts of on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet items. Measurements which we use to help us manage interest rate sensitivity include an earnings simulation model and an economic value of equity ("EVE") model. Our interest rate sensitivity modeling incorporates a number of assumptions for both earnings simulation and EVE, including loan and deposit re-pricing characteristics, the rate of loan prepayments, etc. ALCO periodically reviews these assumptions for accuracy based on historical data and future expectations. Our ALCO policy requires that the base scenario assume rates remain flat and is the scenario to which all others are compared in order to measure the change in net interest income and EVE. Policy limits are applied to the results of certain modeling scenarios. While the primary policy scenarios focus on a twelve month time frame, longer time horizons are also modeled. All policy scenarios assume a static balance sheet, although other scenarios are modeled. Earnings simulation model . We believe interest rate risk is best measured by our earnings simulation modeling. Earning assets, interest-bearing liabilities and off-balance sheet financial instruments are combined with forecasts of interest rates for the next 12 months and are combined with other factors in order to produce various earnings simulations. To limit interest rate risk, we have policy guidelines for our earnings at risk which seek to limit the variance of net interest income in both gradual and instantaneous changes to interest rates. For changes up or down in rates from management's flat interest rate forecast over the next twelve months, policy limits in the decline in net interest income are as follows: 54 +/- 10.0% for a gradual change of 400 points; +/-20.0% for an instantaneous change of 400 basis points +/- 7.5% for a gradual change of 300 points; +/- 15.0% for an instantaneous change of 300 basis points +/- 5.0% for a gradual change of 200 points; +/- 10.0% for an instantaneous change of 200 basis points +/- 2.5% for a gradual change of 100 points; +/- 5.0% for an instantaneous change of 100 basis points At December 31, 2014, our earnings simulation model indicated we were in compliance with our policies for both the gradual and instantaneous interest rate changes. Economic value of equity . Our EVE model measures the extent that estimated economic values of our assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items will change as a result of interest rate changes. Economic values are determined by discounting expected cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items, which establishes a base case EVE. To help limit interest rate risk, we have stated policy guidelines for an instantaneous basis point change in interest rates, such that our EVE should not decrease from our base case by more than the following: +/- 400 basis point change in interest rates, EVE shall not decrease by more than 40 percent +/- 300 basis point change in interest rates, EVE shall not decrease by more than 30 percent +/- 200 basis point change in interest rates, EVE shall not decrease by more than 20 percent +/- 100 basis point change in interest rates, EVE shall not decrease by more than 10 percent At December 31, 2014, our EVE model indicated we were in compliance with our policies noted above. However, our policies provide that during certain interest rate cycles, the down basis point rate changes may not be particularly significant given the current slope of the yield curve. Accordingly, we have currently suspended the calculation of the down rate scenarios for EVE measurement for the down 200, down 300 and down 400 scenarios. Another commonly analyzed scenario is a most-likely earnings simulation scenario that projects the expected change in rates based on a forward yield curve adopted by management using expected balance sheet volumes forecasted by management. Separate growth assumptions are developed for loans, investments, deposits, etc. Other interest rate scenarios analyzed by management may include delayed rate shocks, yield curve steepening or flattening, or other variations in rate movements to further analyze or stress our balance sheet under various interest rate scenarios. Each of the above analyses may not, on its own, be an accurate indicator of how our net interest income will be affected by changes in interest rates. Income associated with interest-earning assets and costs associated with interest-bearing liabilities may not be affected uniformly by changes in interest rates. In addition, the magnitude and duration of changes in interest rates may have a significant impact on net interest income. For example, although certain assets and liabilities may have similar maturities or periods of repricing, they may react in different degrees to changes in market interest rates. Interest rates on certain types of assets and liabilities fluctuate in advance of changes in general market rates, while interest rates on other types may lag behind changes in general market rates. In addition, certain assets, such as adjustable rate mortgage loans, have features (generally referred to as interest rate caps and floors) which limit changes in interest rates. Prepayment and early withdrawal levels also could deviate significantly from those assumed in calculating the maturity of certain instruments. The ability of many borrowers to service their debts also may decrease during periods of rising interest rates. ALCO reviews each of the above interest rate sensitivity analyses along with several different interest rate scenarios as part of its responsibility to provide a satisfactory, consistent level of profitability within the framework of established liquidity, loan, investment, borrowing, and capital policies. We may also use derivative financial instruments to improve the balance between interest-sensitive assets and interest-sensitive liabilities and as one tool to manage our interest rate sensitivity while continuing to meet the credit and deposit needs of our customers. We may also enter into interest rate swaps to facilitate customer transactions and meet their financing needs. These swaps qualify as derivatives, even though they are not designated as hedging instruments. 55 Based on information gathered from these various modeling scenarios, management believes that at December 31, 2014, our balance sheet would likely be slightly liability sensitive the first 25 bps of an interest rate increase but would transition to an asset sensitive position on further rate increases as many of the floors attached to variable rate loans would be surpassed. Our modeling indicates that our level of asset sensitivity would accelerate until rates had increased 300 bps and would become neutral at that point as we believe deposit pricing would become increasingly competitive at that point. ALCO may determine that Pinnacle Financial should over time become more or less asset or liability sensitive depending on the underlying balance sheet circumstances and the firm's conclusions as to anticipated interest rate fluctuations in future periods. At present, ALCO has determined that its "most likely" rate scenario considers an initial rise in short-term interest rates in mid- to late-2015 and that such rates will continue to increase over several quarters while the longer end of the rate curve will rise only slightly. The firm's "most likely" rate forecast has been basically consistent for several quarters and is based primarily on information we acquire from a service which includes a consensus forecast of numerous benchmarks. As a result and in preparing for an eventual rise in interest rates, we have implemented the following strategies: Reduced our exposure to fixed rate investment securities in relation to total assets from approximately 23% as of December 31, 2010 to a current position of approximately 13% of total assets. This reduction should assist the firm in becoming more asset sensitive over time. Executed a series of cash flow hedges involving approximately $200 million in FHLB borrowings at pre-established fixed rates. Fixed rate liabilities also provide for a more asset sensitive balance sheet. Participated in interest rate swaps whereby our customers pay a fixed rate which we remit to our counterparty while we receive in return a floating rate on these commercial loans. These loans amounted to approximately $284 million at December 31, 2014. Floating rate loans promote an asset sensitive balance sheet. Reduced the amount of rate floors attached to floating and variable rate commercial loans from $1.300 billion at December 31, 2013 to $1.083 billion as of December 31, 2014 thus promoting a more asset sensitive balance sheet over time. Reduced the difference between the weighted average floor rate on floating and variable rate commercial loans and the weighted average contract rate on these type of loans from 0.84% at December 31, 2013 to 0.73% at December 31, 2014. This reduction results in requiring a lesser increase in shorter-term rates for the floors to be overcome, thus making these loans with rate floors more asset sensitive over time. We believe current growth in our balance sheet will also assist us in achievement of increased asset sensitivity over time; however, we may also implement a series of actions designed to accelerate our achievement of neutrality or asset sensitivity as conditions warrant. Liquidity Risk Management . The purpose of liquidity risk management is to ensure that there are sufficient cash flows to satisfy loan demand, deposit withdrawals, and our other needs. Traditional sources of liquidity for a bank include asset maturities and growth in core deposits. A bank may achieve its desired liquidity objectives from the management of its assets and liabilities and by internally generated funding through its operations. Funds invested in marketable instruments that can be readily sold and the continuous maturing of other earning assets are sources of liquidity from an asset perspective. The liability base provides sources of liquidity through attraction of increased deposits and borrowing funds from various other institutions. To assist in determining the adequacy of our liquidity, we perform a variety of liquidity stress tests including idiosyncratic, systemic and combined scenarios for both moderate and severe events. Liquidity is defined as the ability to convert assets into cash or cash equivalents without significant loss and to raise additional funds by increasing liabilities. Liquidity management involves maintaining our ability to meet the daily cash flow requirements of our customers, both depositors and borrowers. We seek to maintain a sufficiently liquid asset balance to ensure our ability to meet our obligations. The amount of the appropriate minimum liquid asset balance is determined through severe liquidity stress testing as measured by our liquidity coverage ratio calculation. At December 31, 2014, we were in compliance with our liquidity coverage ratio. 56 Changes in interest rates also affect our liquidity position. We currently price deposits in response to market rates, and our management intends to continue this policy. If deposits are not priced in response to market rates, a loss of deposits could occur which would negatively affect our liquidity position. Scheduled loan payments are a relatively stable source of funds, but loan payoffs and deposit flows fluctuate significantly, being influenced by interest rates, general economic conditions and competition. Additionally, debt security investments are subject to prepayment and call provisions that could accelerate their payoff prior to stated maturity. We attempt to price our deposit products to meet our asset/liability objectives consistent with local market conditions. Our ALCO is responsible for monitoring our ongoing liquidity needs. Our regulators also monitor our liquidity and capital resources on a periodic basis. As noted previously, Pinnacle Bank is a member of the FHLB Cincinnati and, pursuant to a borrowing agreement with the FHLB Cincinnati, has pledged certain assets pursuant to a blanket lien. As such, Pinnacle Bank may use the FHLB Cincinnati as a source of liquidity depending on the firm's ALCO strategies. Additionally, we may pledge additional qualifying assets or reduce the amount of pledged assets with the FHLB Cincinnati to increase or decrease our borrowing capacity at the FHLB Cincinnati. At December 31, 2014, we believe we had an estimated $793.7 million in additional borrowing capacity with the FHLB Cincinnati. However, incremental borrowings are made via a formal request by Pinnacle Bank and require subsequent approval by the FHLB Cincinnati. Pinnacle Bank also has accommodations with upstream correspondent banks for unsecured short-term advances which aggregate $155.0 million. These accommodations have various covenants related to their term and availability, and in most cases must be repaid within less than a month. There were no outstanding borrowings under these agreements at December 31, 2014, or during the year then ended under such agreements, although we test the availability of these accommodations annually. Pinnacle Bank also has approximately $1.0 billion in available Federal Reserve discount window lines of credit. At December 31, 2014, and 2013, excluding any reciprocating time deposits issued through the CDARS network, we had no brokered certificates of deposit. Historically, we have issued brokered certificates through several different brokerage houses based on competitive bid. Typically, these funds have been for varying maturities of up to two years and were issued at rates which were competitive to rates we would be required to pay to attract similar deposits within our local markets as well as rates for FHLB advances of similar maturities. Although we consider these deposits to be a ready source of liquidity under current market conditions, we anticipate that these deposits will continue to represent an insignificant percentage of our total funding in 2014 as we seek to maintain a higher level of core deposits. At December 31, 2014, we had no significant commitments for capital expenditures. However we expect to build a new branch facility in the Knoxville MSA, which is tentatively scheduled for completion in the second half of 2015. 57 Our short-term borrowings (borrowings which mature within the next fiscal year) consist primarily of securities sold under agreements to repurchase (these agreements are typically associated with comprehensive treasury management programs for our clients and provide them with short-term returns on their excess funds) and FHLB Cincinnati advances. Information concerning our short-term borrowings as of and for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014 is as follows (in thousands): At December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Amounts outstanding at year-end: Securities sold under agreements to repurchase $ 93,995 $ 70,465 $ 114,667 Federal funds purchased - - - Federal Home Loan Bank short-term advances 180,000 75,000 25,000 Weighted average interest rates at year-end: Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 0.18 % 0.20 % 0.21 % Federal funds purchased - - Federal Home Loan Bank short-term advances 0.16 % 0.12 % 0.21 % Maximum amount of borrowings at any month-end: Securities sold under agreements to repurchase $ 107,244 $ 236,145 $ 153,327 Federal funds purchased - - - Federal Home Loan Bank short-term advances 260,000 285,000 160,000 Average balances for the year: Securities sold under agreements to repurchase $ 67,999 $ 113,742 $ 134,989 Federal funds purchased 1,014 644 1,325 Federal Home Loan Bank short-term advances 80,417 62,500 96,250 Weighted average interest rates for the year: Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 0.21 % 0.21 % 0.34 % Federal funds purchased 0.86 % 0.59 % 0.49 % Federal Home Loan Bank short-term advances 0.17 % 0.18 % 0.18 % The following table presents additional information about our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2014, which by their terms have contractual maturity and termination dates subsequent to December 31, 2014 (in thousands): At December 31, 2014 Next 12 months 13-36 months 37-60 months More than 60 months Totals Contractual obligations: Certificates of deposit $ 338,314 $ 88,360 $ 4,470 $ - $ 431,144 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 93,995 - - - 93,995 Federal Home Loan Bank advances 180,000 15,000 8 378 195,386 Subordinated debt (1) - - - 82,476 82,476 Minimum operating lease commitments 4,093 8,231 7,561 25,285 45,170 Other borrowings (1)(2) 2,500 11,182 - - 13,682 Totals $ 618,902 $ 122,773 $ 12,039 $ 108,139 $ 861,853 (1) Due to the uncertainty of future interest rates on borrowings under Pinnacle Financial's holding company loan and its subordinated debentures, future interest payments on such obligations are not included in the above table. At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial had borrowings of approximately $13.7 million under the holding company loan and subordinated debentures of approximately $82.5 million outstanding. During the year ended December 31, 2014, the interest rate on the holding company loan ranged from 2.69% to 3.01% and the interest rate on the subordinated debentures issued in 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively, ranged from 3.03% to 3.04%, 1.63% to 1.64%, 1.88% to 1.89% and 3.08% to 3.09%, respectively. During the year ended December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial incurred interest expense of $468,000 on borrowings under the holding company loan and $317,000, $342,000, $393,000 and $967,000, respectively, on its subordinated debentures issued in 2003, 2005, 2006 and 2007, respectively. See Note 10. Investments in Affiliated Companies and Subordinated Debt and Note 19. Other Borrowings to Pinnacle Financial's consolidated financial statements for further information. (2) As described in Note 2. Acquisitions and Intangibles, on February 1, 2015, Pinnacle Bank borrowed $40 million from a national banking franchise pursuant to a loan agreement which requires Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank maintain certain financial covenants including minimum capital ratios, liquidity requirements and other matters. This loan has a five-year maturity and bears interest at approximately 2.95% per annum. Beginning June 30, 2015 and on the last calendar day of each quarter thereafter, Pinnacle Bank shall repay together with any interest an amount equal to $1.0 million. Pinnacle Bank is permitted to prepay all or a portion of the principal amount outstanding under the loan agreement without penalty (in minimum aggregate amounts of $100,000) at any time so long as no event of default or unmatured event of default has occurred and is continuing. 58 Our management believes that we have adequate liquidity to meet all known contractual obligations and unfunded commitments, including loan commitments and reasonable borrower, depositor, and creditor requirements over the next twelve months. Our operating lease commitments are primarily related to our branch and headquarters facilities. The terms of these leases expire at various points ranging from 2017 through 2039. At December 31, 2014, our total minimum operating lease commitment was $45.2 million. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements. At December 31, 2014, we had outstanding standby letters of credit of $66.0 million and unfunded loan commitments outstanding of $1.390 billion. Because these commitments generally have fixed expiration dates and many will expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment level does not necessarily represent future cash requirements. If needed to fund these outstanding commitments, Pinnacle Bank has the ability to liquidate Federal funds sold or securities available-for-sale, or on a short-term basis to borrow and purchase Federal funds from other financial institutions. The following table presents additional information about our unfunded commitments as of December 31, 2014, which by their terms, have contractual maturity dates subsequent to December 31, 2014 (in thousands): At December 31, 2014 Next 12 months 13-36 months 37-60 months More than 60 months Totals Unfunded commitments: Lines of credit $ 675,716 $ 266,400 $ 187,675 $ 260,661 $ 1,390,452 Letters of credit 58,487 7,085 316 100 65,988 Totals $ 734,203 $ 273,485 $ 187,991 $ 260,761 $ 1,456,440 We follow the same credit policies and underwriting practices when making these commitments as we do for on-balance sheet instruments. Each customer's creditworthiness is evaluated on a case-by-case basis and the amount of collateral obtained, if any, is based on management's credit evaluation of the customer. However, should the commitments be drawn upon and should our customers default on their resulting obligation to us, our maximum exposure to credit loss, without consideration of collateral, is represented by the contractual amount of those instruments. At December 31, 2014, we had accrued $1.4 million for the inherent risks associated with off-balance sheet commitments. Impact of Inflation The consolidated financial statements and related consolidated financial data presented herein have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and practices within the banking industry which require the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the changes in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. Unlike most industrial companies, virtually all the assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a more significant impact on a financial institution's performance than the effects of general levels of inflation. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In February 2013, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2013-02, "Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income" which provides disclosure guidance on amounts reclassified out of AOCI by component. The adoption did not have any impact on our financial position or results of operations but has impacted our financial statement disclosure. As shown on the statement of comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, Pinnacle Financial reclassified approximately net gains of $18,000, net losses of $891,000 and net gains of $1.3 million out of other comprehensive income into loss on the sale of investment securities, net of tax. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements In January 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-01, "Investments - Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Accounting for Investments in Qualified Affordable Housing Projects." The amendments in this ASU permit reporting entities to make an accounting policy election to account for their investments in qualified affordable housing projects using the proportional amortization method if certain conditions are met. Under the proportional amortization method, an entity amortizes the initial cost of the investment in proportion to the tax credits and other tax benefits received and recognizes the net investment 59 performance in the income statement as a component of income tax expense (benefit). The amendments in this ASU should be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. A reporting entity that uses the effective yield method to account for its investments in qualified affordable housing projects before the date of adoption may continue to apply the effective yield method for those preexisting investments. The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for annual periods and interim reporting periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2014. Early adoption is permitted. Pinnacle Financial does not currently have any LIHTC programs. Therefore, retroactive adoption will not impact our previously reported financial statements. Furthermore, Pinnacle Financial does not believe this consensus will have a material impact on our financial statements. In January 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-04, "Receivables - Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors (Subtopic 310-40): Reclassification of Residential Real Estate Collateralized Consumer Mortgage Loans upon Foreclosure. The amendments in this ASU clarify that in substance repossession or foreclosure occurs, and a creditor is considered to have received physical possession of residential real estate property collateralizing a consumer mortgage loan, upon either (1) the creditor obtaining legal title to the residential real estate property upon completion of a foreclosure or (2) the borrower conveying all interest in the residential real estate property to the creditor to satisfy that loan through completion of a deed in lieu of foreclosure or through a similar legal agreement. Additionally, the amendments require interim and annual disclosure of both (1) the amount of foreclosed residential real estate property held by the creditor and (2) the recorded investment in consumer mortgage loans collateralized by residential real estate property that are in the process of foreclosure according to local requirements of the applicable jurisdiction. The amendments in this ASU are effective for public business entities for annual periods, and interim periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 2014. An entity can elect to adopt the amendments in this ASU using either a modified retrospective transition method or a prospective transition method. Pinnacle Financial does not expect this ASU to have a material impact on our financial statements. In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-10, "Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860): Repurchase-to-Maturity Transactions, Repurchase Financings, and Disclosures ." The amendments in this ASU change the accounting for repurchase-to-maturity transactions to secured borrowing accounting. For repurchase financing arrangements, the amendments require separate accounting for a transfer of a financial asset executed contemporaneously with a repurchase agreement with the same counterparty, which will result in secured borrowing accounting for the repurchase agreement. The amendments also require enhanced disclosures. The accounting changes in this ASU are effective for the first interim or annual period beginning after December 15, 2014. An entity is required to present changes in accounting for transactions outstanding on the effective date as a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. Earlier application is prohibited. The disclosure for certain transactions accounted for as a sale is required to be presented for interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2014, and the disclosure for repurchase agreements, securities lending transactions, and repurchase-to-maturity transactions accounted for as secured borrowings is required to be presented for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2014, and for interim periods beginning after March 15, 2015. The disclosures are not required to be presented for comparative periods before the effective date. Pinnacle Financial does not expect this ASU to have material impact on our financial statements. In June 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-12, "Compensation- Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Accounting for Share-Based Payments when the Terms of an Award Provide that a Performance Target Could Be Achieved After the Requisite Service Period ." The amendments in this ASU require that a performance target that affects vesting and that could be achieved after the requisite service period has elapsed be treated as a performance condition. The amendments in this ASU are effective for annual periods and interim periods within those annual periods beginning after December 15, 2015. Earlier adoption is permitted. Entities may apply the amendments in this ASU either (a) prospectively to all awards granted or modified after the effective date or (b) retrospectively to all awards with performance targets that are outstanding as of the beginning of the earliest annual period presented in the financial statements and to all new or modified awards thereafter. If retrospective transition is adopted, the cumulative effect of applying this ASU as of the beginning of the earliest annual period presented in the financial statements should be recognized as an adjustment to the opening retained earnings balance at that date. Additionally, if retrospective transition is adopted, an entity may use hindsight in measuring and recognizing the compensation cost. Pinnacle Financial does not expect this ASU to have a material impact on our financial statements. Other than those pronouncements discussed above and those which have been recently adopted, there were no other recently issued accounting pronouncements that are expected to impact Pinnacle Financial. 60 °Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK The response to this Item is included in Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations", on pages 31 through 60 and is incorporated herein by reference. 61 °Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Financial Statements Table of Contents Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 63 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Financial Statements 64 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Internal Control over Financial Reporting 65 Consolidated Financial Statements: Consolidated balance sheets 66 Consolidated statements of income 67 Consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss) 68 Consolidated statements of stockholders' equity 69 Consolidated statements of cash flows 70 Notes to consolidated financial statements 71 62 MANAGEMENT REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The management of Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. (the Company) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc.'s internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to the Company's management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc.'s management assessed the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control-Integrated Framework (1992). Based on our assessment we believe that, as of December 31, 2014, the Company's internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. The Company's independent registered public accounting firm has issued an audit report on the Company's internal control over financial reporting. This report appears on page 65 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 63 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholders Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc.: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income (loss), stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2014. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2014, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc.'s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 25, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting. (signed) KPMG LLP Nashville, Tennessee February 25, 2015 64 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Stockholders Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc.: We have audited Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc.'s (the Company's) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting . Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income (loss), stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014, and our report dated February 25, 2015 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. (signed) KPMG LLP Nashville, Tennessee February 25, 2015 65 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December 31, ASSETS 2014 2013 Cash and noninterest-bearing due from banks $ 48,741,692 $ 79,785,004 Interest-bearing due from banks 134,176,054 124,509,486 Federal funds sold and other 4,989,764 4,644,247 Cash and cash equivalents 187,907,510 208,938,737 Securities available-for-sale, at fair value 732,054,785 693,456,314 Securities held-to-maturity (fair value of $38,788,870 and $38,817,467 at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively) 38,675,527 39,795,649 Mortgage loans held-for-sale 14,038,914 12,850,339 Loans 4,590,026,505 4,144,493,486 Less allowance for loan losses (67,358,639 ) (67,969,693 ) Loans, net 4,522,667,866 4,076,523,793 Premises and equipment, net 71,576,016 72,649,574 Other investments 38,062,134 33,226,195 Accrued interest receivable 16,988,407 15,406,389 Goodwill 243,529,010 243,651,006 Core deposits and other intangible assets 2,893,072 3,840,750 Other real estate owned 11,186,414 15,226,136 Other assets 138,668,142 148,210,975 Total assets $ 6,018,247,797 $ 5,563,775,857 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY Deposits: Non-interest-bearing $ 1,321,053,083 $ 1,167,414,487 Interest-bearing 1,005,450,690 884,294,802 Savings and money market accounts 2,024,957,383 1,962,714,398 Time 431,143,756 519,049,037 Total deposits 4,782,604,912 4,533,472,724 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 93,994,730 70,465,326 Federal Home Loan Bank advances 195,476,384 90,637,328 Subordinated debt and other borrowings 96,158,292 98,658,292 Accrued interest payable 631,682 792,703 Other liabilities 46,688,416 46,041,823 Total liabilities 5,215,554,416 4,840,068,196 Stockholders' equity: Preferred stock, no par value; 10,000,000 shares authorized; no shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2014 and 2013 - - Common stock, par value $1.00; 90,000,000 shares authorized; 35,732,483 and 35,221,941 issued and outstanding at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively 35,732,483 35,221,941 Additional paid-in capital 561,431,449 550,212,135 Retained earnings 201,371,081 142,298,199 Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes 4,158,368 (4,024,614 ) Total stockholders' equity 802,693,381 723,707,661 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 6,018,247,797 $ 5,563,775,857 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 66 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME For the years ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Interest income: Loans, including fees $ 184,648,800 $ 169,252,739 $ 160,036,709 Securities: Taxable 14,227,172 14,504,464 16,931,417 Tax-exempt 6,167,264 6,378,345 6,576,701 Federal funds sold and other 1,126,726 1,146,867 1,876,731 Total interest income 206,169,962 191,282,415 185,421,558 Interest expense: Deposits 9,953,930 11,721,387 16,842,852 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 140,623 238,775 455,499 Federal Home Loan Bank advances and other borrowings 3,090,860 3,423,617 5,258,749 Total interest expense 13,185,413 15,383,779 22,557,100 Net interest income 192,984,549 175,898,636 162,864,458 Provision for loan losses 3,634,660 7,856,522 5,568,830 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 189,349,889 168,042,114 157,295,628 Noninterest income: Service charges on deposit accounts 11,707,274 10,557,528 9,917,754 Investment services 9,382,670 8,038,425 6,984,970 Insurance sales commissions 4,612,583 4,537,150 4,461,404 Gains on mortgage loans sold, net 5,630,371 6,243,411 6,698,618 Investment gains (losses) on sales and impairments, net 29,221 (1,466,475 ) 2,150,605 Trust fees 4,601,036 3,747,241 3,195,950 Other noninterest income 16,639,323 15,446,298 9,987,335 Total noninterest income 52,602,478 47,103,578 43,396,636 Noninterest expense: Salaries and employee benefits 88,319,567 82,646,967 78,056,564 Equipment and occupancy 24,087,335 21,273,454 20,420,333 Other real estate expense 664,289 3,113,046 11,544,067 Marketing and other business development 4,127,949 3,638,941 3,635,810 Postage and supplies 2,391,838 2,249,950 2,379,730 Amortization of intangibles 947,678 1,262,524 2,738,994 Other noninterest expense 15,761,027 15,076,332 19,389,368 Total noninterest expense 136,299,683 129,261,214 138,164,866 Income before income taxes 105,652,684 85,884,478 62,527,398 Income tax expense 35,181,517 28,158,277 20,643,517 Net income 70,471,167 57,726,201 41,883,881 Preferred stock dividends - - 1,660,868 Accretion on preferred stock discount - - 2,153,172 Net income available to common stockholders $ 70,471,167 $ 57,726,201 $ 38,069,841 Per share information: Basic net income per common share available to common stockholders $ 2.03 $ 1.69 $ 1.12 Diluted net income per common share available to common stockholders $ 2.01 $ 1.67 $ 1.10 Weighted average common shares outstanding: Basic 34,723,335 34,200,770 33,899,667 Diluted 35,126,890 34,509,261 34,487,808 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 67 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) Year Ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Net income: $ 70,471,167 $ 57,726,201 $ 41,883,881 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax: Increase (decrease) in net gains on securities available-for-sale, net of deferred tax expense (benefit) 11,900,309 (22,156,995 ) (2,798,700 ) (Decrease) increase in fair value of forward cash flow hedge, net of tax expense (benefit) (3,699,569 ) 4,013,570 - Net losses (gains) on sale of investment securities reclassified out of other comprehensive income into net income, net of tax (17,758 ) 891,177 (1,306,923 ) Total other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax 8,182,982 17,252,248 (4,105,623 ) Total comprehensive income $ 78,654,149 $ 40,473,953 $ 37,778,258 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 68 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY For the each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014 Preferred Stock Amount Common Stock Common Stock Warrants Additional Paid-in Capital Retained Earnings Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Total Stockholders' Equity Shares Amount Balances, December 31, 2011 $ 69,096,828 34,354,960 $ 34,354,960 $ 3,348,402 $ 536,227,537 $ 49,783,584 $ 17,333,257 $ 710,144,568 Exercise of employee common stock options, stock appreciation rights, common stock warrants and related tax benefits - 245,229 245,229 - 1,455,969 - - 1,701,198 Repurchase of preferred stock (71,250,000 ) - - - - - - (71,250,000 ) Issuance of restricted common shares, net of forfeitures - 102,119 102,119 - (102,119 ) - - - Issuance of salary stock units - 57,508 57,508 - 942,565 - - 1,000,073 Restricted shares withheld for taxes - (63,219 ) (63,219 ) - (1,021,409 ) - - (1,084,628 ) Compensation expense for restricted shares - - - - 3,270,028 - - 3,270,028 Compensation expense for stock options - - - - 394,466 - - 394,466 Cancellation of outstanding warrants - - - (3,348,402 ) 2,593,402 - - (755,000 ) Accretion on preferred stock discount 2,153,172 - - - - (2,153,172 ) - - Preferred dividends paid - - - - - (2,127,604 ) - (2,127,604 ) Net income - - - - - 41,883,881 - 41,883,881 Other comprehensive loss - - - - - - (4,105,623 ) (4,105,623 ) Balances, December 31, 2012 $ - 34,696,597 $ 34,696,597 $ - $ 543,760,439 $ 87,386,689 $ 13,227,634 $ 679,071,359 Exercise of employee common stock options, stock appreciation rights, common stock warrants and related tax benefits - 280,008 280,008 - 3,961,042 - - 4,241,050 Issuance of restricted common shares, net of forfeitures - 303,111 303,111 - (303,111 ) - - - Restricted shares withheld for taxes - (57,775 ) (57,775 ) - (1,288,367 ) - - (1,346,142 ) Compensation expense for restricted shares - - - - 4,069,662 - - 4,069,662 Compensation expense for stock options - - - - 12,470 - - 12,470 Common dividends paid - - - - - (2,814,691 ) - (2,814,691 ) Net income - - - - - 57,726,201 - 57,726,201 Other comprehensive loss - - - - - - (17,252,248 ) (17,252,248 ) Balances, December 31, 2013 $ - 35,221,941 $ 35,221,941 $ - $ 550,212,135 $ 142,298,199 $ (4,024,614 ) $ 723,707,661 Exercise of employee common stock options, stock appreciation rights, common stock warrants and related tax benefits - 302,403 302,403 - 8,444,894 - - 8,747,297 Issuance of restricted common shares, net of forfeitures - 277,187 277,187 - (277,187 ) - - - Restricted shares withheld for taxes - (69,048 ) (69,048 ) - (2,256,560 ) - - (2,325,608 ) Compensation expense for restricted shares - - - - 5,308,167 - - 5,308,167 Common dividends paid - - - - - (11,398,285 ) - (11,398,285 ) Net income - - - - - 70,471,167 - 70,471,167 Other comprehensive income - - - - - - 8,182,982 8,182,982 Balances, December 31, 2014 - 35,732,483 $ 35,732,483 $ - $ 561,431,449 $ 201,371,081 $ 4,158,368 $ 802,693,381 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 69 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS For the years ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Operating activities: Net income $ 70,471,167 $ 57,726,201 $ 41,883,881 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Net amortization/accretion of premium/discount on securities 4,526,497 4,438,303 7,291,775 Depreciation and amortization 9,282,197 9,245,876 10,207,638 Provision for loan losses 3,634,660 7,856,522 5,568,830 Investment (gains) losses on sales and impairments, net (29,221 ) 1,466,475 (2,150,605 ) Gain on mortgage loans sold, net (5,630,371 ) (6,243,411 ) (6,698,618 ) Stock-based compensation expense 5,308,167 4,082,132 4,414,452 Deferred tax expense (benefit) 394,452 1,841,044 1,547,626 (Gains) losses on disposition of other real estate and other investments (74,807 ) 3,103,008 9,608,358 Excess tax benefit from stock compensation (1,698,521 ) (389,415 ) (36,071 ) Mortgage loans held for sale: Loans originated (331,135,205 ) (385,173,288 ) (486,930,709 ) Loans sold 335,577,000 419,761,000 487,798,601 Decrease in other assets 4,014,267 11,567,952 36,400,237 (Decrease) increase in other liabilities 417,873 (2,847,047 ) 5,372,270 Net cash provided by operating activities 95,058,155 126,435,352 114,277,665 Investing activities: Activities in securities available-for-sale: Purchases (149,051,923 ) (233,887,505 ) (222,831,813 ) Sales 2,360,478 23,439,144 188,586,154 Maturities, prepayments and calls 123,949,792 143,322,733 210,732,980 Activities in securities held-to-maturity: Purchases (923,652 ) (3,496,186 ) - Sales - - - Maturities, prepayments and calls 1,229,874 3,623,800 1,755,000 Increase in loans, net (455,357,214 ) (447,907,395 ) (440,508,548 ) Purchases of premises and equipment and software (5,878,562 ) (5,293,919 ) (5,864,452 ) Purchase of bank owned life insurance - (38,352,344 ) - (Increase) decrease in other investments (4,208,447 ) (6,141,232 ) 17,743,227 Net cash used in investing activities (487,879,654 ) (564,692,904 ) (250,387,452 ) Financing activities: Net increase in deposits 249,132,187 518,284,740 360,848,517 Net increase (decrease) in repurchase agreements 23,529,404 (44,202,149 ) (16,923,937 ) Advances from Federal Home Loan Bank: Issuances 790,000,000 600,000,000 520,000,000 Payments (685,093,244 ) (585,144,603 ) (670,141,606 ) Net (decrease) increase in subordinated debt and other borrowings (2,500,000 ) (7,500,000 ) 8,682,292 Repurchase of common stock warrants - - (755,000 ) Exercise of common stock options and stock appreciation rights 6,421,689 2,894,908 866,683 Excess tax benefit from stock compensation 1,698,521 389,415 36,071 Preferred stock dividends paid - - (2,127,604 ) Repurchase of preferred shares outstanding - - (71,250,000 ) Common stock dividends paid (11,398,285 ) (2,814,691 ) - Net cash provided by financing activities 371,790,272 481,907,620 129,235,416 Net (decrease) increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (21,031,227 ) 43,650,068 (6,874,371 ) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 208,938,737 165,288,669 172,163,040 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year $ 187,907,510 $ 208,938,737 $ 165,288,669 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 70 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Nature of Business Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. (Pinnacle Financial) is a bank holding company whose primary business is conducted by its wholly-owned subsidiary, Pinnacle Bank (Pinnacle Bank). Pinnacle Bank is a Tennessee state-chartered commercial bank headquartered in Nashville, Tennessee. Pinnacle Bank provides a full range of banking services, including investment, mortgage, and insurance services, and comprehensive wealth management services, in its primary market areas of the Nashville-Davidson-Murfreesboro-Franklin, Tennessee and Knoxville, Tennessee Metropolitan Statistical Areas. Basis of Presentation These consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Pinnacle Financial and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. PNFP Statutory Trust I, PNFP Statutory Trust II, PNFP Statutory Trust III, and PNFP Statutory Trust IV are affiliates of Pinnacle Financial and are included in these consolidated financial statements pursuant to the equity method of accounting. Significant intercompany transactions and accounts are eliminated in consolidation. Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities as of the balance sheet dates and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change in the near term include the determination of the allowance for loan losses, determination of any impairment of intangible assets, the valuation of other real estate owned and the valuation of deferred tax assets. Impairment Long-lived assets, including purchased intangible assets subject to amortization, such as core deposit intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized by the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset. Assets to be disposed of would be separately presented in the balance sheet and reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell, and are no longer depreciated. Pinnacle Financial has $2.9 million and $3.8 million of long-lived amortizing intangibles at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment at least annually and more frequently if events and circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. That annual assessment date for Pinnacle Financial is September 30. An impairment loss is recognized to the extent that the carrying amount exceeds fair value. The Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 350, Goodwill and Other , regarding testing goodwill for impairment provides an entity the option to first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If an entity does a qualitative assessment and determines it is necessary, or if a qualitative assessment is not performed, it is required to perform a two-step goodwill impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount of goodwill impairment loss to be recognized for that reporting unit (if any). If, based on a qualitative assessment, an entity determines that the fair value of a reporting unit is more than its carrying amount, the two-step goodwill impairment test is not required. Pinnacle Financial performed its annual qualitative assessment as of September 30, 2014. The results of the qualitative assessment indicated that the fair value of Pinnacle Financial's reporting unit was more than its carrying value, and accordingly, the two-step goodwill impairment test was not performed. Should Pinnacle Financial's common stock price decline or other impairment indicators become known, additional impairment testing of goodwill may be required. Should it be determined in a future period that the goodwill has become impaired, then a charge to earnings will be recorded in the period such determination is made. Specific factors that could negatively impact the assumptions used include the following: a change in the control premium being realized in the market or a meaningful change in the number of mergers and acquisitions occurring; the amount of expense savings that may be realized in an acquisition scenario; significant fluctuations in our asset/liability balances or the composition of our balance sheet; a change in the overall valuation of the stock market, specifically bank stocks; performance of Southeast U.S. Banks; and Pinnacle Bank's performance relative to peers. Changing these assumptions, or any other key assumptions, could have a material impact on the amount of goodwill impairment, if any. Pinnacle Financial had $243.5 million of goodwill at December 31, 2014 related to the acquisition of Cavalry Bancorp, Inc. and Mid America Bancshares, Inc. in 2006 and 2007, respectively. 71 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Cash Equivalents and Cash Flows Cash on hand, cash items in process of collection, amounts due from banks, Federal funds sold, short-term discount notes and securities purchased under agreements to resell, with original maturities within ninety days, are included in cash and cash equivalents. The following supplemental cash flow information addresses certain cash payments and noncash transactions for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014 as follows: For the years ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Cash Payments: Interest $ 13,414,134 $ 16,020,132 $ 23,506,632 Income taxes paid 31,350,000 27,150,000 10,249,106 Noncash Transactions: Loans charged-off to the allowance for loan losses 7,702,661 17,252,736 19,657,061 Loans foreclosed upon with repossessions transferred to other real estate 4,649,852 4,630,251 9,052,792 Available-for-sale securities transferred to held-to-maturity portfolio - 39,959,647 - Securities Securities are classified based on management's intention on the date of purchase. All debt securities classified as available-for-sale are recorded at fair value with any unrealized gains and losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of the deferred income tax effects. Securities that Pinnacle Financial has both the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and are carried at historical cost and adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts. Interest and dividends on securities, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts calculated under the effective interest method, are included in interest income. For certain securities, amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts is computed based on the anticipated life of the security which may be shorter than the stated life of the security. Realized gains and losses from the sale of securities are determined using the specific identification method, and are recorded on the trade date of the sale. Other-than-temporary Impairment A decline in the fair value of any available-for-sale or held-to-maturity security below cost that is deemed to be other-than-temporary results in a reduction in the carrying amount of the security. To determine whether impairment is other-than-temporary, management considers whether the entity expects to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security by reviewing the present value of the future cash flows associated with the security. The shortfall of the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected in relation to the amortized cost basis is referred to as a credit loss and is deemed to be other-than-temporary impairment. If a credit loss is identified, the credit loss is recognized as a charge to earnings and a new cost basis for the security is established. If management concludes that a decline in fair value of a security is temporary and a full recovery of principal and interest is expected and it is not more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery of their amortized cost basis, then the security is not other-than-temporarily impaired and the shortfall is recorded as a component of equity. Periodically, available-for-sale securities may be sold or the composition of the portfolio realigned to improve yields, quality or marketability, or to implement changes in investment or asset/liability strategy, including maintaining collateral requirements and raising funds for liquidity purposes. Additionally, if an available-for-sale security loses its investment grade, tax-exempt status, the underlying credit support is terminated or collection otherwise becomes uncertain based on factors known to management, Pinnacle Financial will consider selling the security, but will review each security on a case-by-case basis as these factors become known. Resultantly, other-than-temporary charges may be incurred as management's intention related to a particular security changes. The carrying values of Pinnacle Financial's investment securities could decline in the future if the financial condition of issuers deteriorates and management determines it is probable that Pinnacle Financial will not recover the entire amortized cost bases of the securities. As a result, there is a risk that other-than-temporary impairment charges may occur in the future. There is also a risk that other-than-temporary impairment charges may occur in the future if management's intention to hold these securities to maturity and or recovery changes. 72 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Mortgage loans held-for-sale Mortgage loans originated and intended for sale are carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value as determined on a loan-by-loan basis. Net unrealized losses, if any, are recognized through a valuation allowance by charges to income. Realized gains and losses are recognized when legal title to the loans has been transferred to the purchaser and sales proceeds have been received and are reflected in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations in gains on mortgage loans sold, net of related costs such as compensation expenses. Pinnacle Financial does not securitize mortgage loans and does not retain the servicing for loans sold. Loans Pinnacle Financial has five loan segments for financial reporting purposes: commercial and industrial, commercial real estate mortgage, construction and land development, consumer and other and consumer real estate mortgage. The appropriate classification is determined based on the underlying collateral utilized to secure each loan. These classifications are consistent with those utilized in the Quarterly Report of Condition and Income filed by Pinnacle Bank with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Loans are reported at their outstanding principal balances, net of the allowance for loan losses and any deferred fees or costs on originated loans. Interest income on loans is accrued based on the principal balance outstanding. Loan origination fees, net of certain loan origination costs, are deferred and recognized as an adjustment to the related loan yield using a method which approximates the interest method. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, net deferred loan fees of $1.4 million and $993,000 respectively, were included in loans on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. As part of our routine credit monitoring process, commercial loans receive risk ratings by the assigned financial advisor and are subject to validation by our independent loan review department. Risk ratings are categorized as pass, special mention, substandard, substandard-impaired or doubtful-impaired. Pinnacle Financial believes that our categories follow those outlined by Pinnacle Bank's primary federal regulator. At December 31, 2014, approximately 74% of our loan portfolio was assigned a specifically assigned risk rating in the allowance for loan loss assessment. Certain consumer loans and commercial relationships that possess certain qualifying characteristics, including individually smaller balances, are generally not assigned an individual risk rating but are evaluated collectively for credit risk as a homogenous pool of loans and individually as either accrual or nonaccrual based on the performance of the loan. Loans are placed on nonaccrual status when there is a significant deterioration in the financial condition of the borrower, which generally is the case but is not limited to when the principal or interest is more than 90 days past due, unless the loan is both well-secured and in the process of collection. All interest accrued but not collected for loans that are placed on nonaccrual status is reversed against current interest income. Interest income is subsequently recognized only if certain cash payments are received while the loan is classified as nonaccrual, but interest income recognition is reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine if the payment should be applied to interest or principal pursuant to regulatory guidelines. A nonaccrual loan is returned to accruing status once the loan has been brought current as to principal and interest and collection is reasonably assured or the loan has been "well-secured" through other techniques. All loans that are placed on nonaccrual status are further analyzed to determine if they should be classified as impaired loans. A loan is considered to be impaired when it is probable Pinnacle Financial will be unable to collect all principal and interest payments due in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. This determination is made using a variety of techniques, which include a review of the borrower's financial condition, debt-service coverage ratios, global cash flow analysis, guarantor support, other loan file information, meetings with borrowers, inspection or reappraisal of collateral and/or consultation with legal counsel as well as results of reviews of other similar industry credits (e.g. builder loans, development loans, church loans, etc.). Loans are charged off when management believes that the full collectability of the loan is unlikely. As such, a loan may be partially charged-off after a "confirming event" has occurred which serves to validate that full repayment pursuant to the terms of the loan is unlikely. 73 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Allowance for Loan Losses (allowance) Our management assesses the adequacy of the allowance prior to the end of each calendar quarter. This assessment includes procedures to estimate the allowance and test the adequacy and appropriateness of the resulting balance. The level of the allowance is based upon management's evaluation of the loan portfolio, loan loss experience, asset quality trends, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers' ability to repay the loan (including the timing of future payment), the estimated value of any underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, economic conditions, industry and peer bank loan quality indications and other pertinent factors, including regulatory recommendations. The level of allowance maintained by management is believed adequate to absorb probable losses inherent in the loan portfolio at the balance sheet date. The allowance is increased by provisions charged to expense and decreased by charge-offs, net of recoveries of amounts previously charged-off. Allocation of the allowance may be made for specific loans, but the entire allowance is available for any loan that, in management's judgment, is deemed uncollectible. In assessing the adequacy of the allowance, we also consider the results of our ongoing independent loan review process. We undertake this process both to ascertain those loans in the portfolio with elevated credit risk and to assist in our overall evaluation of the risk characteristics of the entire loan portfolio. Our loan review process includes the judgment of management, independent internal loan reviewers, and reviews that may have been conducted by third-party reviewers including regulatory examiners. We incorporate relevant loan review results in the allowance. Our allowance for loan losses is composed of the result of two independent analyses pursuant to the provisions of ASC 450-20, Loss Contingencies and ASC 310-10-35, Receivables . The ASC 450-20 analysis is intended to quantify the inherent risk in our performing loan portfolio. The component of the allowance for nonperforming loans generated by ASC 310-10-35 is the result of a loan-by-loan analysis of impaired loans $250,000 and greater done by segment and the resulting impairment percentage is applied to all loans below $250,000. The ASC 450-20 component of the allowance for loan losses begins with a process of estimating the probable losses based on our internal system of risk ratings and historical loss data for our risk rated portfolio. Prior to 2010, because of our limited loss history, loss estimates were primarily derived from historical loss data by loan categories for comparable peer institutions. During 2010, we incorporated the results of our own historical migration analysis of all loans that were charged-off during the prior eight quarters. The look-back period in our migration analysis was extended in 2011 to eleven quarters to continue to include the losses incurred in the second quarter of 2009. Subsequently, we have increased our look-back period each quarter to include the most recent quarters' loss history for a total of 23 quarters as of December 31, 2014. In this current economic environment, we believe the extension of our look-back period in our migration analysis has been appropriate due to the risks inherent in our loan portfolio. Additionally, as the most recent 12 quarters are considered more relevant in this current economic cycle, they have been weighted more than the earliest 11 quarters. The weighting of these quarters is determined based upon our assessment of the relevance of each quarter in the economic cycle. During the fourth quarter of 2014, we validated our loss emergence period in order to improve our assessment of the migration loss analysis. The loss emergence period is the length of time from an initial event which triggered the loss to the recognition of the loss. The loss emergence period was determined for the losses in each category of loans and then applied to the resulting loss migration analysis. The application of a loss emergence period adjusts the migration analysis for each loan category to a more precise length of time which may be greater than or less than one year. This migration analysis assists in evaluating loan loss allocation rates for the various risk grades assigned to loans in our portfolio. The allowance allocation for non risk-rated portfolios is based on consideration of our actual historical loss rates and are evaluated as a group by category rather than on an individual loan basis because these loans are smaller and homogeneous. We weight the allocation methodologies for the non risk-rated loan portfolio and determine a weighted average allocation for these portfolios. 74 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For the performing loans, the estimated loan loss allocation for all loan segments is then adjusted for management's estimate of probable losses for a number of environmental factors that have not been fully considered in either the loan by loan impairment or migration analyses. The environmental categories and the related benchmarks used to quantify the risks within each of these categories are subjectively selected by management and in accordance with our approved methodology. The data for each measurement against the benchmarks is determined from both internal and external sources. The resulting measurements are assigned a risk factor against the non impaired loan portfolio based upon where each measurement falls on a pre-determined level of risk on a nine point scale. This amount represents estimated probable inherent credit losses which exist, but have not yet been identified either in our risk rating or impairment process, as of the balance sheet date, and is based upon quarterly trend assessments in various concentrations, policy exceptions, economic conditions, loan volume changes, independent loan review, collateral considerations, trends in credit quality, trends in competition and regulatory requirements, enterprise wide risk assessments, modeling risks within the allowance process and peer group credit quality. These environmental factors are considered for each of the five loan segments, and the allowance allocation, as determined by the processes noted above for each segment, is increased or decreased based on the incremental assessment of these various environmental factors. The ASC 450-20 portion of the allowance also includes an unallocated component. We believe that the unallocated amount is warranted for inherent factors that cannot be practically assigned to individual loan categories, such as the imprecision in the overall loss allocation measurement process, the subjectivity risk of potentially not considering all relevant environmental categories and related measurements and imprecision in our credit risk ratings process. The second component of the allowance for loan losses is determined pursuant to ASC 310-10-35. Loans are impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Collection of all amounts due according to the contractual terms means collecting all interest and principal payments of a loan as scheduled in the loan agreement. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires material estimates including the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans that may be susceptible to significant change. Loan losses are charged off when management believes that the full collectability of the loan is unlikely. A loan may be partially charged-off after a "confirming event" has occurred which serves to validate that full repayment pursuant to the terms of the loan is unlikely. For nonaccrual loans and troubled debt restructurings less than $250,000, Pinnacle Financial assigns a valuation allowance to these loans utilizing an allocation rate equal to the allocation rate calculated for loans of a similar type greater than $250,000. In addition, Pinnacle Financial reviews impaired collateral dependent loans less than $250,000 to determine if any amounts should be charged-off pursuant to regulatory requirements. At December 31, 2014, the principal balance of these small impaired loans was $5.3 million, which represented 21.0% of all impaired loans compared to $5.8 million and 15.2% of all impaired loans at December 31, 2013. An impairment allowance is recognized if the fair value of the loan is less than the recorded investment in the loan (recorded investment in the loan is the principal balance plus any accrued interest, net of deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized premium or discount). The impairment is recognized through the provision for loan losses and is a component of the allowance. Loans that are impaired are recorded at the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan's effective interest rate, or if the loan is collateral dependent, at the fair value of the collateral, less estimated disposal costs. If the loan is collateral dependent, the principal balance of the loan is charged-off in an amount equal to the impairment measurement. The fair value of collateral dependent loans is derived primarily from collateral appraisals performed by independent third-party appraisers. Management believes it follows appropriate accounting and regulatory guidance in determining impairment and accrual status of impaired loans. Pursuant to the guidance set forth in ASU No. 2011-02, A Creditor's Determination of Whether a Restructuring is a Troubled Debt Restructuring, the above impairment methodology is also applied to those loans identified as troubled debt restructurings. We then test the resulting allowance by comparing the balance in the allowance to historical trends and industry and peer information. Our management then evaluates the result of the procedures performed, including the results of our testing, and decides on the appropriateness of the balance of the allowance in its entirety. The audit committee of our board of directors reviews and approves the methodology and resultant allowance prior to the filing of quarterly and annual financial information. 75 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS While our policies and procedures used to estimate the allowance for loan losses, as well as the resultant provision for loan losses charged to operations, are considered adequate by management and are reviewed from time to time by our regulators, they are necessarily approximate and imprecise. There are factors beyond our control, such as conditions in the local, national, and international economy, a local real estate market or particular industry conditions which may negatively impact materially our asset quality and the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses and thus the resulting provision for loan losses. Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements In February 2013, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2013-02, "Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income" which provides disclosure guidance on amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) by component. The adoption did not have any impact on our financial position or results of operations but has impacted our financial statement disclosure. As shown on the statement of comprehensive income for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, Pinnacle Financial reclassified approximately $18,000 of net losses, net gains of $891,000 and net losses of $1.3 million, respectively, out of other comprehensive income into investment gains (losses) on sales and impairments, net of tax. Transfers of Financial Assets Transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales when control over the assets has been surrendered or in the case of a loan participation, a portion of the asset has been surrendered and meets the definition of a "participating interest". Control over transferred assets is deemed to be surrendered when (1) the assets have been isolated from Pinnacle Financial, (2) the transferee obtains the right (free of conditions that constrain it from taking advantage of that right) to pledge or exchange the transferred assets, and (3) Pinnacle Financial does not maintain effective control over the transferred assets through an agreement to repurchase them before maturity. Premises and Equipment and Leaseholds Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization computed principally by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets or the expected lease terms for leasehold improvements, whichever is shorter. Useful lives for all premises and equipment range between three and thirty years. Pinnacle Bank is the lessee with respect to several office locations. All such leases are being accounted for as operating leases within the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Several of these leases include rent escalation clauses. Pinnacle Bank expenses the costs associated with these escalating payments over the life of the expected lease term using the straight-line method. At December 31, 2014, the deferred liability associated with these escalating rentals was approximately $2.4 million and is included in other liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Other Investments Pinnacle Financial is required to maintain certain minimum levels of equity investments with certain regulatory and other entities in which Pinnacle Bank has outstanding borrowings, including the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the cost of these investments was $15.8 million and $16.1 million, respectively. Pinnacle Financial determined that cost approximates the fair value of these investments. Additionally, Pinnacle Financial has recorded certain investments in other entities, at fair value, of $8.1 million and $6.7 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. During 2014 and 2013, Pinnacle Financial recorded net gains of $690,000 and net losses of $122,000, respectively, due to changes in the fair value of these investments. As more fully described in footnote 10, Pinnacle Financial has an investment in four Trusts valued at $2.5 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013. The Trusts were established to issue preferred securities, the dividends for which are paid with interest payments Pinnacle Financial makes on subordinated debentures it issued to the Trusts. Also, as part of our compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act, we had investments in low income housing entities totaling $10.8 million and $7.9 million, net, as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These investments are reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets in other investments. 76 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Other Real Estate Owned Other real estate owned (OREO) represents real estate foreclosed upon or acquired by deed in lieu of foreclosure by Pinnacle Bank through loan defaults by customers. Substantially all of these amounts relate to lots, homes and residential development projects that are either completed or are in various stages of construction for which Pinnacle Financial believes it has adequate collateral. Upon its acquisition by Pinnacle Bank, the property is recorded at the lower of cost or fair value, based on appraised value, less selling costs estimated as of the date acquired. The difference from the loan balance is recognized as a charge-off through the allowance for loan losses. Additional OREO losses for subsequent downward valuation adjustments and expenses to maintain OREO are determined on a specific property basis and are included as a component of noninterest expense. Net gains or losses realized at the time of disposal are reflected in noninterest income or noninterest expense, as applicable. Included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2014 is $15.1 million of OREO with related property-specific valuation allowances of $3.9 million. At December 31, 2013, OREO totaled $20.9 million with related property-specific valuation allowances of $5.7 million. During the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, Pinnacle Financial incurred $664,000, $3.1 million, and $11.5 million, respectively, of net foreclosed real estate expense. $552,000 of the net foreclosed real estate expense was a realized gain on disposition and holding losses on valuations of OREO properties during 2014 and $2.0 million and $9.5 million were realized losses on dispositions and holding losses on valuations of OREO properties during 2013 and 2012, respectively. Other Assets Included in other assets as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, is approximately $2.3 million and $2.7 million, respectively, of computer software related assets, net of amortization. This software supports Pinnacle Financial's primary data systems and relates to amounts paid to vendors for installation and development of such systems. These amounts are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods of three to seven years. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012, Pinnacle Financial's amortization expense was approximately $1.1 million, $937,000, and $818,000, respectively. Software maintenance fees are capitalized in other assets and amortized over the term of the maintenance agreement. Pinnacle Bank is the owner and beneficiary of various life insurance policies on certain key executives and certain directors. These policies are reflected in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at their respective cash surrender values. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the aggregate cash surrender value of these policies was approximately $92.7 million and $90.3 million, respectively. Noninterest income related to these policies was $2.4 million, $2.1 million, and $0.9 million, during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Derivative Instruments In accordance with ASC Topic 815 Derivatives and Hedging , all derivative instruments are recorded on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet at their respective fair values. The accounting for changes in fair value (i.e., gains or losses) of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship. If the derivative instrument is not designated as a hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recognized in earnings in the period of change. Pinnacle Financial enters into interest rate swaps (swaps) to facilitate customer transactions and meet their financing needs. Upon entering into these instruments to meet customer needs, Pinnacle Financial enters into offsetting positions with large U.S. financial institutions in order to minimize the risk to Pinnacle Financial. These swaps are derivatives, but are not designated as hedging instruments. Pinnacle Financial also has cash flow hedge relationships in the form of interest rate swap agreements to manage our future interest rate exposure. These derivative contracts have been designated as a hedge and, as such, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument are recorded in other comprehensive income. Pinnacle Financial prepares written hedge documentation for all derivatives which are designated as hedges. The written hedge documentation includes identification of, among other items, the risk management objective, hedging instrument, hedged item and methodologies for assessing and measuring hedge effectiveness and ineffectiveness, along with support for management's assertion that the hedge will be highly effective. 77 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For designated hedging relationships, Pinnacle Financial performs retrospective and prospective effectiveness testing using quantitative methods and does not assume perfect effectiveness through the matching of critical terms. Assessments of hedge effectiveness and measurements of hedge ineffectiveness are performed at least quarterly. The effective portion of the changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective and that has been designated and qualifies as a cash flow hedge are initially recorded in AOCI and will be reclassified to earnings in the same period that the hedged item impacts earnings; any ineffective portion is recorded in current period earnings. Hedge accounting ceases on transactions that are no longer deemed effective, or for which the derivative has been terminated or de-designated. Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase Pinnacle Financial routinely sells securities to certain treasury management customers and then repurchases these securities the next day. Securities sold under agreements to repurchase are reflected as a secured borrowing in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at the amount of cash received in connection with each transaction. Income Taxes ASC 740, Income Taxes , defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more-likely-than-not" to be sustained by the taxing authority. This section also provides guidance on the derecognition, measurement and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties, and includes guidance concerning accounting for income tax uncertainties in interim periods. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the expected future tax amounts for the temporary differences between carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities, computed using enacted tax rates. The net deferred tax asset is reflected as a component of other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. A valuation allowance is required for deferred tax assets if, based on available evidence, it is more likely than not that all or some portion of the asset may not be realized due to the inability to generate sufficient taxable income in the period and/or of the character necessary to utilize the benefit of the deferred tax asset. Income tax expense or benefit for the year is allocated among continuing operations and other comprehensive income (loss), as applicable. The amount allocated to continuing operations is the income tax effect of the pretax income or loss from continuing operations that occurred during the year, plus or minus income tax effects of (a) changes in certain circumstances that cause a change in judgment about the realization of deferred tax assets in future years, (b) changes in income tax laws or rates, and (c) changes in income tax status, subject to certain exceptions. The amount allocated to other comprehensive income (loss) is related solely to changes in the valuation allowance on items that are normally accounted for in other comprehensive income (loss) such as unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities. Pinnacle Financial and its subsidiaries file consolidated U.S. Federal and State of Tennessee income tax returns. Each entity provides for income taxes based on its contribution to income or loss of the consolidated group. Pinnacle Financial has a Real Estate Investment Trust subsidiary that files a separate federal tax return, but its income is included in the consolidated group's return as required by the federal tax laws. Pinnacle Financial remains open to audit under the statute of limitations by the IRS and the state of Tennessee for the years ended December 31, 2011 through 2014. Pinnacle Financial's policy is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. The amount accrued for interest and/or penalties related to State uncertain tax positions at December 31, 2014 was $140,000. No amounts were accrued for interest and/or penalties at both December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 . Pinnacle Financial's policy is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. Income Per Common Share Basic net income per share available to common stockholders (EPS) is computed by dividing net income available to common stockholders by the weighted average common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS reflects the dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted. The difference between basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding is attributable to common stock options, common stock appreciation rights, restricted share awards, and restricted share unit awards. The dilutive effect of outstanding options, common stock appreciation rights, warrants, restricted share awards, and restricted share unit awards is reflected in diluted EPS by application of the treasury stock method. 78 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As of December 31, 2014, there were approximately 695,000 stock options and 3,700 stock appreciation rights outstanding to purchase common shares. For the year ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, approximately 403,555 and 308,491 of dilutive stock options, dilutive restricted shares, restricted share units and stock appreciation rights were included in the diluted earnings per share calculation under the treasury stock method. The following is a summary of the basic and diluted earnings per share calculation for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014: 2014 2013 2012 Basic earnings per share calculation: Numerator - Net income available to common stockholders $ 70,471,167 $ 57,726,201 $ 38,069,841 Denominator Weighted average common shares outstanding 34,723,335 34,200,770 33,899,667 Basic net income per common share available to common stockholders $ 2.03 $ 1.69 $ 1.12 Diluted earnings per share calculation: Numerator - Net income available to common stockholders $ 70,471,167 $ 57,726,201 $ 38,069,841 Denominator Weighted average common shares outstanding 34,723,335 34,200,770 33,899,667 Dilutive shares contingently issuable 403,555 308,491 588,141 Weighted average diluted common shares outstanding 35,126,890 34,509,261 34,487,808 Diluted net income per common share available to common stockholders $ 2.01 $ 1.67 $ 1.10 Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation expense is recognized based on the fair value of the portion of stock-based payment awards that are ultimately expected to vest, reduced for estimated forfeitures. ASC 718-20 Compensation Stock Compensation Awards Classified as Equity requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. Service based awards with multiple vesting periods are expensed over the entire requisite period as if the award were a single award. For awards with performance vesting criteria, anticipated performance is projected to determine the number of awards expected to vest, and the corresponding aggregate expense is adjusted to reflect the elapsed portion of the performance period. Comprehensive Income (Loss) Comprehensive income (loss) consists of the total of all components of comprehensive income (loss) including net income (loss). Other comprehensive income (loss) refers to revenues, expenses, gains and losses that under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles are included in comprehensive income (loss) but excluded from net income (loss). Currently, Pinnacle Financial's other comprehensive income (loss) consists of unrealized gains and losses on securities available-for-sale, net of deferred tax expense (benefit) and unrealized gains on derivative hedging relationships. Fair Value Measurement ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and established required disclosures about fair value measurements. ASC 820 applies only to fair-value measurements that are already required or permitted by other accounting standards and increases the consistency of those measurements. The definition of fair value focuses on the exit price, i.e., the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, not the entry price, (i.e., the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability at the measurement date). The statement emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement; not an entity-specific measurement. Therefore, the fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. 79 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Pinnacle Financial has an established process for determining fair values. Fair value is based upon quoted market prices, where available. If listed prices or quotes are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models or processes that use primarily market-based or independently-sourced market data, including interest rate yield curves, option volatilities and third party information such as prices of similar assets of liabilities. Valuation adjustments may be made to ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value. Furthermore, while Pinnacle Financial believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. Subsequent Events ASC Topic 855, Subsequent Events, establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued. Pinnacle Financial evaluated all events or transactions that occurred after December 31, 2014, through the date of the issued financial statements. On February 1, 2015, Pinnacle Financial acquired a 30% interest in Bankers Healthcare Group LLC which included additional borrowings of $40 million and is more fully discussed in Note 2 below. During this period there were no other material recognizable subsequent events that required recognition or disclosures in the December 31, 2014 financial statements. Note 2. Acquisitions and Intangibles Acquisition Mid-America Bancshares, Inc. (Mid-America) On November 30, 2007, we consummated a merger with Mid-America, a two-bank holding company located in Nashville, Tennessee. Pinnacle Financial recognized $9.4 million as a core deposit intangible. This identified intangible is being amortized over ten years using an accelerated method which anticipates the life of the underlying deposits to which the intangible is attributable. For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 approximately $860,000, $896,000 and $987,000, respectively, was recognized in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations as amortization of intangibles. Amortization expense associated with this identified intangible will approximate $691,000 to $825,000 per year for the next three years. Acquisition Cavalry Bancorp, Inc. (Cavalry) On March 15, 2006, Pinnacle Financial consummated its merger with Cavalry, a one-bank holding company located in Murfreesboro, Tennessee. Pinnacle Financial recognized $13.2 million as a core deposit intangible. This identified intangible was being amortized over seven years using an accelerated method which anticipated the life of the underlying deposits to which the intangible is attributable. This intangible was fully amortized during the year ended December 31, 2014. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 approximately $273,000 and $1.6 million, respectively, was recognized in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations as amortization of intangibles. Acquisition - Beach Gentry. During the third quarter of 2008, Pinnacle Bank acquired Murfreesboro, Tennessee based Beach Gentry Insurance LLC (Beach Gentry). Concurrently, Beach Gentry merged with Miller Loughry Insurance Services Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pinnacle Bank, also located in Murfreesboro. In connection with this acquisition, Pinnacle Financial recorded a customer list intangible of $1.3 million which is being amortized over 20 years on an accelerated basis. Amortization of this intangible amounted to $91,000, $97,000, and $103,000 respectively, during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. Acquisition - Bankers Healthcare Group, LLC. On February 1, 2015, Pinnacle Bank acquired a 30% interest in Bankers Healthcare Group, LLC (BHG) for $75 million in cash. Pinnacle Bank will account for this investment pursuant to the equity method for unconsolidated subsidiaries and will recognize its interest in BHG's profits and losses in noninterest income with corresponding adjustments to the BHG investment account. Additionally, Pinnacle Bank will not separately recognize any goodwill or other intangible asset associated with the transaction, however, it will recognize amortization expense associated with certain amounts related to BHG's customer list and data processing capabilities. In connection with this acquisition, Pinnacle Bank borrowed $40 million from a national banking franchise pursuant to a loan agreement which requires Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank maintain certain financial covenants including minimum capital ratios, liquidity requirements and other matters. The loan has a 5-year maturity and bears interest at approximately 2.95% per annum currently. 80 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 3. Participation in U.S. Treasury Capital Purchase Program (CPP) On December 12, 2008, Pinnacle Financial issued 95,000 shares of preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury (the Treasury) for $95 million pursuant to the CPP. For the time the CPP preferred stock was outstanding, the CPP preferred stock was non-voting, other than having class voting rights on certain matters, and paid cumulative dividends quarterly at a rate of 5% per annum. Pinnacle Financial redeemed the preferred shares issued to the Treasury under the CPP in two transactions. During the fourth quarter of 2011, Pinnacle Financial redeemed 23,750 of the preferred shares in a transaction totaling approximately $23.9 million, including accrued but unpaid dividends of $142,000. During the second quarter of 2012, Pinnacle Financial completed the redemption of the remaining 71,250 preferred shares outstanding in a transaction totaling $71.6 million which included accrued but unpaid dividends of $346,000. Concurrently, Pinnacle Financial accelerated the accretion of the remaining preferred stock discount of approximately $1.7 million during the second quarter of 2012. Additionally, Pinnacle Financial issued warrants to purchase 534,910 shares of common stock to the Treasury as a condition to its participation in the CPP. The warrants had an exercise price of $26.64 each, were immediately exercisable and expired 10 years from the date of issuance. On June 16, 2009, Pinnacle Financial completed the sale of 8,855,000 shares of its common stock in a public offering, resulting in net proceeds to Pinnacle Financial of approximately $109 million. As a result, and pursuant to the terms of the warrants, the number of shares issuable upon exercise of the warrants was reduced by 50%, or 267,455 shares. During the third quarter of 2012, Pinnacle Financial repurchased all of the remaining outstanding warrants held by the Treasury for $755,000. Note 4. Restricted Cash Balances Regulation D of the Federal Reserve Act requires that banks maintain reserve balances with the Federal Reserve Bank based principally on the type and amount of their deposits. At our option, Pinnacle Financial maintains additional balances to compensate for clearing and other services. For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, the average daily balance maintained at the Federal Reserve was approximately $113.2 million and $108.8 million, respectively. 81 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 5. Securities The amortized cost and fair value of securities available-for-sale and held-to-maturity at December 31, 2014 and 2013 are summarized as follows (in thousands): December 31, 2014: Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Securities available-for-sale: U.S Treasury Securities $ - $ - $ - $ - U.S. Government agency securities 117,098 12 3,654 113,456 Mortgage-backed securities 447,757 10,322 2,240 455,839 State and municipal securities 130,545 8,213 180 138,578 Asset-backed securities 13,089 14 85 13,018 Corporate notes 10,196 969 2 11,163 $ 718,685 $ 19,530 $ 6,161 $ 732,054 Securities held-to-maturity: State and municipal securities 38,676 205 92 38,789 $ 38,676 $ 205 $ 92 $ 38,789 December 31, 2013: Securities available-for-sale: U.S Treasury Securities $ - $ - $ - $ - U.S. Government agency securities 117,282 13 13,422 103,873 Mortgage-backed securities 411,967 9,771 8,802 412,936 State and municipal securities 143,763 5,504 856 148,411 Asset-backed securities 17,262 - 255 17,007 Corporate notes 10,218 1,018 7 11,229 $ 700,492 $ 16,306 $ 23,342 $ 693,456 Securities held-to-maturity: State and municipal securities 39,796 72 1,051 38,817 $ 39,796 $ 72 $ 1,051 $ 38,817 At December 31, 2014, approximately $624.5 million of Pinnacle Financial's investment portfolio was pledged to secure public funds and other deposits and securities sold under agreements to repurchase. During the year ended December 31, 2013, approximately $40.0 million of available-for-sale securities were transferred to the held-to-maturity portfolio. The transfers of debt securities into the held-to-maturity category from the available-for-sale category were made at fair value at the date of transfer. The unrealized holding gain or loss at the date of transfer was retained in other comprehensive income and in the carrying value of the held-to-maturity securities. Amortized cost reflected above includes the unrealized gain or loss at the date of transfer. Such amounts will be amortized to interest income over the remaining life of the securities. No such transfers occurred during the year ended December 31, 2014. 82 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The amortized cost and fair value of debt securities as of December 31, 2014 by contractual maturity are shown below. Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities of mortgage-backed securities since the mortgages underlying the securities may be called or prepaid with or without penalty. Therefore, these securities are not included in the maturity categories in the following summary (in thousands): Available-for-sale Held-to-maturity Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Due in one year or less $ 7,844 $ 7,900 $ 1,942 $ 1,947 Due in one year to five years 29,332 30,741 11,728 11,775 Due in five years to ten years 153,113 156,967 15,962 15,973 Due after ten years 67,550 67,589 9,044 9,094 Mortgage-backed securities 447,757 455,839 - - Asset-backed securities 13,089 13,018 - - $ 718,685 $ 732,054 $ 38,676 $ 38,789 At December 31, 2014 and 2013, included in securities were the following investments with unrealized losses. The information below classifies these investments according to the term of the unrealized loss of less than twelve months or twelve months or longer (in thousands): Investments with an Unrealized Loss of less than 12 months Investments with an Unrealized Loss of 12 months or longer Total Investments with an Unrealized Loss Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses At December 31, 2014: U.S. Treasury securities $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - U.S. government agency securities 3,593 10 103,658 3,644 107,251 3,654 Mortgage-backed securities 91,410 405 102,892 1,835 194,302 2,240 State and municipal securities 3,561 15 16,502 257 20,063 272 Asset-backed securities - - 9,289 85 9,289 85 Corporate notes 950 1 154 1 1,104 2 Total temporarily-impaired securities $ 99,514 $ 431 $ 232,495 $ 5,822 $ 332,009 $ 6,253 At December 31, 2013: U.S. Treasury securities $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - $ - U.S. government agency securities 8,742 22 92,869 13,400 101,611 13,422 Mortgage-backed securities 157,262 3,913 42,903 4,889 200,165 8,802 State and municipal securities 46,282 1,351 3,798 555 50,080 1,906 Asset-backed securities - - 17,006 255 17,006 255 Corporate notes 946 6 159 2 1,105 8 Total temporarily-impaired securities $ 213,232 $ 5,292 $ 156,735 $ 19,101 $ 369,967 $ 24,393 The applicable date for determining when securities are in an unrealized loss position is December 31, 2014 and 2013. As such, it is possible that a security had a market value less than its amortized cost on other days during the twelve-month periods ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, but is not in the "Investments with an Unrealized Loss of less than 12 months" category above. 83 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS As shown in the table above, at December 31, 2014 and 2013, Pinnacle Financial had unrealized losses of $6.3 million and $24.4 million on $332.0 million and $370.0 million, respectively, of available-for-sale securities. The unrealized losses associated with these investment securities are primarily driven by changes in interest rates and are not due to the credit quality of the securities. These securities will continue to be monitored as a part of our ongoing impairment analysis, but are expected to perform even if the rating agencies reduce the credit rating of the bond issuers. Management evaluates the financial performance of the issuers on a quarterly basis to determine if it is probable that the issuers can make all contractual principal and interest payments. Because Pinnacle Financial currently does not intend to sell these securities and it is not more-likely-than-not that Pinnacle Financial will be required to sell the securities before recovery of their amortized cost bases, which is expected at or before maturity, Pinnacle Financial does not consider these securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2014. The carrying values of Pinnacle Financial's investment securities could decline in the future if the financial condition of issuers deteriorates and management determines it is probable that Pinnacle Financial will not recover the entire amortized cost bases of the securities. As a result, there is a risk that other-than-temporary impairment charges may occur in the future. Note 6. Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses For financial reporting purposes, Pinnacle Financial classifies its loan portfolio based on the underlying collateral utilized to secure each loan. These classifications are consistent with those utilized in the Quarterly Report of Condition and Income filed by Pinnacle Bank with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). Pinnacle Financial uses five loan categories: commercial real estate mortgage, consumer real estate mortgage, construction and land development, commercial and industrial, consumer and other. Commercial real estate mortgage loans. Commercial real estate mortgage loans are categorized as such based on investor exposures where repayment is largely dependent upon the operation, refinance, or sale of the underlying real estate. Commercial real estate mortgage also includes owner occupied commercial real estate which shares a similar risk profile to our commercial and industrial loan products. Consumer real estate-mortgage loans. Consumer real-estate mortgage consists primarily of loans secured by 1-4 residential properties including home equity lines of credit. Construction and land development loans include loans where the repayment is dependent on the successful operation of the related real estate project. Construction and land development loans include 1-4 family construction projects and commercial construction endeavors such as warehouses, apartments, office and retail space and land acquisition and development. Commercial and industrial loans. Commercial and industrial loans include loans to business enterprises issued for commercial, industrial and/or other professional purposes. Consumer and other loans. Consumer and other loans include all loans issued to individuals not included in the consumer real estate mortgage classification. Examples of consumer and other loans are automobile loans, credit cards and loans to finance education, among others. Commercial loans receive risk ratings by the assigned financial advisor and are subject to validation by Pinnacle Financial's independent loan review department. Risk ratings are categorized as pass, special mention, substandard, substandard-impaired or doubtful-impaired. Pass-rated loans include five distinct ratings categories for loans that represent specific attributes. Pinnacle Financial believes that its categories follow those outlined by Pinnacle Bank's primary regulators. At December 31, 2014, approximately 74.0% of our loan portfolio was analyzed as a commercial loan type with a specifically assigned risk rating in the allowance for loan loss assessment. Consumer loans and small business loans are generally not assigned an individual risk rating but are evaluated as either accrual or nonaccrual based on the performance of the individual loans. However, certain consumer real estate-mortgage loans and certain consumer and other loans receive a specific risk rating due to the loan proceeds being used for commercial purposes even though the collateral may be of a consumer loan nature. 84 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Risk ratings are subject to continual review by a financial advisor and a senior credit officer. At least annually, our credit policy requires that every risk rated loan of $500,000 or more be subject to a formal credit risk review process by the assigned financial advisor. Each loan's risk rating is also subject to review by our independent loan review department, which reviews a substantial portion of our risk rated portfolio annually. Included in the coverage are independent loan reviews of loans in targeted higher-risk portfolio segments such as certain commercial and industrial loans, land loans and/or loan types in certain geographies. The following table presents our loan balances by primary loan classification and the amount within each risk rating category. Pass-rated loans include all credits other than those included in special mention, substandard, substandard-nonaccrual and doubtful-nonaccrual which are defined as follows: Special mention loans have potential weaknesses that deserve management's close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects for the asset or in Pinnacle Financial's credit position at some future date. Substandard loans are inadequately protected by the current sound worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any. Assets so classified must have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize collection of the debt. Substandard loans are characterized by the distinct possibility that Pinnacle Financial will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected. Substandard-nonaccrual loans are substandard loans that have been placed on nonaccrual status. Doubtful-nonaccrual loans have all the characteristics of substandard-nonaccrual loans with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions and values, highly questionable and improbable. 85 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table outlines the amount of each loan classification categorized into each risk rating category as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): Commercial real estate - mortgage Consumer real estate - mortgage Construction and land development Commercial and industrial Consumer and other Total December 31, 2014 Accruing loans: Pass $ 1,510,718 $ 697,607 $ 295,645 $ 1,704,910 $ 216,155 $ 4,425,035 Special Mention 7,353 2,536 15,215 31,733 - 56,837 Substandard (1) 21,707 12,631 5,997 42,704 - 83,039 Total 1,539,778 712,774 316,857 1,779,347 216,155 4,564,911 Impaired loans: Nonaccruing loans Substandard-nonaccrual 4,313 4,458 5,173 1,609 1,152 16,705 Doubtful-nonaccrual - - - - - - Total nonaccruing loans 4,313 4,458 5,173 1,609 1,152 16,705 Troubled debt restructurings (2) Pass - 62 436 575 75 1,148 Special Mention - 811 - - 201 1,011 Substandard - 3,053 - 3,198 - 6,251 Total troubled debt restructurings - 3,926 436 3,773 276 8,410 Total impaired loans 4,313 8,384 5,609 5,382 1,428 25,116 Total loans $ 1,544,091 $ 721,158 $ 322,466 $ 1,784,729 $ 217,583 $ 4,590,027 December 31, 2013 Accruing loans: Pass $ 1,332,387 $ 670,412 $ 275,876 $ 1,557,923 $ 143,032 $ 3,979,630 Special Mention 8,282 1,824 31,835 20,065 - 62,006 Substandard (1) 20,296 14,107 7,297 23,174 154 65,028 Total 1,360,965 686,343 315,008 1,601,162 143,186 4,106,664 Impaired loans: Nonaccruing loans Substandard-nonaccrual 9,017 5,289 1,070 2,565 242 18,183 Doubtful-nonaccrual - - - - - - Total nonaccruing loans 9,017 5,289 1,070 2,565 242 18,183 Troubled debt restructurings (2) Pass 2,564 1,666 113 320 276 4,939 Special Mention - - - - - - Substandard 10,889 2,318 - 1,500 - 14,707 Total troubled debt restructurings 13,453 3,984 113 1,820 276 19,646 Total impaired loans 22,470 9,273 1,183 4,385 518 37,829 Total loans $ 1,383,435 $ 695,616 $ 316,191 $ 1,605,547 $ 143,704 $ 4,144,493 (1) Potential problem loans represent those loans with a well-defined weakness and where information about possible credit problems of borrowers has caused management to have doubts about the borrower's ability to comply with present repayment terms. This definition is believed to be substantially consistent with the standards established by Pinnacle Bank's primary regulators for loans classified as substandard, excluding the impact of substandard nonperforming loans and substandard troubled debt restructurings. Potential problem loans, which are not included in nonperforming assets, amounted to approximately $83.0 million at December 31, 2014, compared to $65.0 million at December 31, 2013. (2) Troubled debt restructurings are presented as an impaired loan; however, they continue to accrue interest at contractual rates. 86 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31, 2014 and 2013, all loans classified as nonaccrual were deemed to be impaired. The principal balances of these nonaccrual loans amounted to $16.7 million and $18.2 million at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, and are included in the table above. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, the average balance of nonaccrual loans was $17.5 million as compared to $21.5 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2013. Pinnacle Financial's policy is that the discontinuation of the accrual of interest income will occur when (1) there is a signifcant deterioration in the financial condition of the borrower and full repayment of principal and interest is not expected or (2) the principal or interest is more than 90 days past due, unless the loan is both well secured and in the process of collection. As such, at the date the above mentioned loans were placed on nonaccrual status, Pinnacle Financial reversed all previously accrued interest income against current year earnings. Had these nonaccruing loans been on accruing status, interest income would have been higher by $636,000, $375,000 and $1.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The following tables detail the recorded investment, unpaid principal balance and related allowance and average recorded investment of our nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 by loan classification and the amount of interest income recognized on a cash basis throughout the year-to-date period then ended, respectively, on these loans that remain on the balance sheets (in thousands): At December 31, 2014 For the year ended December 31, 2014 Recorded investment Unpaid principal balance Related allowance (1) Average recorded investment Interest income recognized Collateral dependent nonaccrual loans: Commercial real estate mortgage $ 2,422 $ 2,641 $ - $ 2,624 $ - Consumer real estate mortgage 1,472 1,901 - 1,552 - Construction and land development 4,810 4,810 - 5,016 256 Commercial and industrial 1,325 1,804 - 1,561 - Consumer and other - - - - - Total $ 10,029 $ 11,156 $ - $ 10,753 $ 256 Cash flow dependent nonaccrual loans: Commercial real estate mortgage $ 1,891 $ 2,107 $ 108 $ 1,958 $ - Consumer real estate mortgage 2,986 3,205 654 3,080 - Construction and land development 363 406 79 384 - Commercial and industrial 284 294 62 316 - Consumer and other 1,152 1,184 252 972 - Total $ 6,676 $ 7,196 $ 1,155 $ 6,710 $ - Total Nonaccrual Loans $ 16,705 $ 18,352 $ 1,155 $ 17,463 $ 256 87 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31, 2013 For the year ended December 31, 2013 Recorded investment Unpaid principal balance Related allowance (1) Average recorded investment Interest income recognized Collateral dependent nonaccrual loans: Commercial real estate mortgage $ 7,035 $ 7,481 $ - $ 6,522 $ - Consumer real estate mortgage 2,162 2,209 - 2,234 - Construction and land development 545 545 - 938 - Commercial and industrial 1,828 1,901 - 3,911 - Consumer and other - - - - - Total $ 11,570 $ 12,136 $ - $ 13,605 $ - Cash flow dependent nonaccrual loans: Commercial real estate mortgage $ 1,982 $ 2,166 $ 142 $ 2,448 $ - Consumer real estate mortgage 3,127 3,334 722 3,405 - Construction and land development 525 609 33 568 - Commercial and industrial 737 1,029 218 1,216 - Consumer and other 242 252 72 242 - Total $ 6,613 $ 7,390 $ 1,187 $ 7,879 $ - Total Nonaccrual Loans $ 18,183 $ 19,526 $ 1,187 $ 21,484 $ - At December 31, 2012 For the year ended December 31, 2012 Recorded investment Unpaid principal balance Related allowance (1) Average recorded investment Interest income recognized Collateral dependent nonaccrual loans: Commercial real estate mortgage $ 8,740 $ 11,187 $ - $ 11,194 $ - Consumer real estate mortgage 3,641 6,394 - 6,394 - Construction and land development 1,546 2,062 - 2,063 - Commercial and industrial 1,547 1,761 - 1,896 - Consumer and other - - - - - Total $ 15,474 $ 21,404 $ - $ 21,547 $ - Cash flow dependent nonaccrual loans: Commercial real estate mortgage $ 551 $ 1,841 $ 154 $ 3,228 $ - Consumer real estate mortgage 2,265 4,473 573 5,828 - Construction and land development 2,963 4,701 201 5,102 - Commercial and industrial 1,491 2,459 814 2,528 - Consumer and other 79 179 22 180 - Total $ 7,349 $ 13,653 $ 1,764 $ 16,866 $ - Total Nonaccrual Loans $ 22,823 $ 35,057 $ 1,764 $ 38,413 $ - (1) Collateral dependent loans are typically charged-off to their net realizable value and no specific allowance is carried related to those loans. 88 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Pinnacle Financial's policy is that once a loan is placed on nonaccrual status each subsequent payment is reviewed on a case-by-case basis to determine if the payment should be applied to interest or principal pursuant to regulatory guidelines. Pinnacle Financial recognized $256,000 of interest income from cash payments received on nonaccrual loans during the year ended December 31, 2014 and no interest income during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, there were $8.4 million and $19.6 million, respectively, of troubled debt restructurings that were performing as of their restructure date and which are accruing interest. These troubled debt restructurings are considered impaired loans pursuant to U.S. GAAP. Troubled commercial loans are restructured by specialists within Pinnacle Bank's Special Assets Group, and all restructurings are approved by committees and credit officers separate and apart from the normal loan approval process. These specialists are charged with reducing Pinnacle Financial's overall risk and exposure to loss in the event of a restructuring by obtaining some or all of the following: improved documentation, additional guaranties, increase in curtailments, reduction in collateral release terms, additional collateral or other similar strategies. The following table outlines the amount of each troubled debt restructuring by loan classification made during the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 (in thousands): December 31, 2014 Number of contracts Pre Modification Outstanding Recorded Investment Post Modification Outstanding Recorded Investment, net of related allowance Commercial real estate mortgage - $ - $ - Consumer real estate mortgage 1 47 38 Construction and land development 1 436 403 Commercial and industrial 10 3,628 2,646 Consumer and other - - - 12 $ 4,111 $ 3,087 December 31, 2013 Commercial real estate mortgage - $ - $ - Consumer real estate mortgage 1 500 427 Construction and land development 1 56 49 Commercial and industrial 2 1,750 1,535 Consumer and other 2 277 243 6 $ 2,583 $ 2,254 December 31, 2012 Commercial real estate mortgage 4 $ 11,539 $ 10,022 Consumer real estate mortgage 4 834 718 Construction and land development - - - Commercial and industrial - - - Consumer and other 1 36 31 9 $ 12,409 $ 10,771 89 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During the year ended December 31, 2014, no troubled debt restructurings subsequently defaulted within twelve months of the restructuring. During the year ended December 31, 2013, one consumer loan totaling $480,000 which was previously classified as a troubled debt restructuring subsequently defaulted within twelve months of restructuring. During the year ended December 31, 2012, two commercial real estate loans totaling $3.2 million, eight commercial and industrial loans totaling $476,000 and two consumer loans totaling $153,000 which were previously classified as troubled debt restructurings subsequently defaulted within twelve months of the restructuring. A default is defined as an occurrence which violates the terms of the receivable's contract. A default is defined as an occurrence which violates the terms of the receivable's contract. At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial had $1.2 million in unfunded commitments to borrowers whose funded commitments had been classified as troubled debt restructurings. In addition to the loan metrics above, Pinnacle Financial analyzes its commercial loan portfolio to determine if a concentration of credit risk exists to any industries. Pinnacle Financial utilizes broadly accepted industry classification systems in order to classify borrowers into various industry classifications. Pinnacle Financial has a credit exposure (loans outstanding plus unfunded lines of credit) exceeding 25% of Pinnacle Bank's total risk-based capital to borrowers in the following industries at December 31, 2014 with the comparative exposures for December 31, 2013 (in thousands): At December 31, 2014 Outstanding Principal Balances Unfunded Commitments Total exposure Total Exposure at December 31, 2013 Lessors of nonresidential buildings $ 515,145 $ 57,475 $ 572,620 $ 515,240 Lessors of residential buildings 292,721 42,678 335,399 270,773 The table below presents past due balances at December 31, 2014 and 2013, by loan classification and segment allocated between performing and nonperforming status (in thousands): December 31, 2014 30-89 days past due and performing 90 days or more past due and performing Total past due and performing Nonperforming(1) Current and performing Total Loans Commercial real estate: Owner-occupied $ - $ - $ - $ 4,313 $ 760,207 $ 764,520 All other 2,232 - 2,232 - 777,339 779,571 Consumer real estate mortgage 2,391 146 2,537 4,458 714,163 721,158 Construction and land development 421 - 421 5,173 316,872 322,466 Commercial and industrial 3,431 5 3,436 1,609 1,779,684 1,784,729 Consumer and other 9,532 172 9,704 1,152 206,727 217,583 $ 18,007 $ 323 $ 18,330 $ 16,705 $ 4,554,992 $ 4,590,027 December 31, 2013 Commercial real estate: Owner-occupied $ 2,534 $ - $ 2,534 $ 7,750 $ 669,014 $ 679,298 All other 27 2,232 2,259 1,267 700,611 704,137 Consumer real estate mortgage 2,215 - 2,215 5,289 688,112 695,616 Construction and land development 4,839 - 4,839 1,070 310,282 316,191 Commercial and industrial 1,847 825 2,672 2,565 1,600,310 1,605,547 Consumer and other 1,488 289 1,777 242 141,685 143,704 $ 12,950 $ 3,346 $ 16,296 $ 18,183 $ 4,110,014 $ 4,144,493 (1) Approximately $10.2 million and $10.9 million of nonaccrual loans as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, are currently performing pursuant to their contractual terms. 90 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table shows the allowance allocation by loan classification for accruing and nonperforming loans at December 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): Impaired Loans Accruing Loans Nonaccrual Loans Troubled Debt Restructurings (1) Total Allowance for Loan Losses December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Commercial real estate mortgage $ 22,094 $ 19,298 $ 108 $ 142 $ - $ 1,932 $ 22,202 $ 21,372 Consumer real estate mortgage 3,963 7,090 654 722 807 543 5,424 8,355 Construction and land development 5,555 7,186 79 33 90 16 5,724 7,235 Commercial and industrial 28,329 24,660 62 218 776 256 29,167 25,134 Consumer and other 1,261 1,521 252 72 57 39 1,570 1,632 Unallocated - - - - - - 3,272 4,242 $ 61,202 $ 59,755 $ 1,155 $ 1,187 $ 1,730 $ 2,786 $ 67,359 $ 67,970 (1) Troubled debt restructurings of $8.4 million and $19.6 million as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, are classified as impaired loans pursuant to U.S. GAAP; however, these loans continue to accrue interest at contractual rates. The following table details the changes in the allowance for loan losses from December 31, 2012 to December 31, 2013 to December 31, 2014 by loan classification and the allocation of allowance for loan losses (in thousands): Commercial real estate - mortgage Consumer real estate - mortgage Construction and land development Commercial and industrial Consumer and other Unallocated Total Allowance for Loan Losses: Balance at December 31, 2013 $ 21,372 $ 8,355 $ 7,235 $ 25,134 $ 1,632 $ 4,242 $ 67,970 Charged-off loans (875 ) (1,621 ) (301 ) (3,095 ) (1,811 ) - (7,703 ) Recovery of previously charged-off loans 538 671 277 1,484 487 - 3,457 Provision for loan losses 1,167 (1,981 ) (1,487 ) 5,644 1,262 (970 ) 3,635 Balance at December 31, 2014 $ 22,202 $ 5,424 $ 5,724 $ 29,167 $ 1,570 $ 3,272 $ 67,359 Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 22,094 $ 3,963 $ 5,555 $ 28,329 $ 1,261 $ 61,202 Individually evaluated for impairment 108 1,461 169 838 309 2,885 Loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality - - - - - - Balance at December 31, 2014 $ 22,202 $ 5,424 $ 5,724 $ 29,167 $ 1,570 $ 67,359 Loans: Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 1,539,778 $ 712,774 $ 316,857 $ 1,779,347 $ 216,155 $ 4,564,911 Individually evaluated for impairment 4,313 8,384 5,609 5,382 1,428 25,116 Loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality - - - - - - Balance at December 31, 2014 $ 1,544,091 $ 721,158 $ 322,466 $ 1,784,729 $ 217,583 $ 4,590,027 91 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Commercial real estate mortgage Consumer real estate mortgage Construction and land development Commercial and industrial Consumer and other Unallocated Total Allowance for Loan Losses: Balance at December 31, 2012 $ 19,634 $ 8,762 $ 9,164 $ 24,738 $ 1,094 $ 6,025 $ 69,417 Charged-off loans (4,123 ) (2,250 ) (1,351 ) (8,159 ) (1,369 ) - (17,252 ) Recovery of previously charged-off loans 500 1,209 1,464 4,531 244 - 7,948 Provision for loan losses 5,361 634 (2,042 ) 4,024 1,663 (1,783 ) 7,857 Balance at December 31, 2013 $ 21,372 $ 8,355 $ 7,235 $ 25,134 $ 1,632 $ 4,242 $ 67,970 Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 19,298 $ 7,090 $ 7,186 $ 24,660 $ 1,521 $ 59,755 Individually evaluated for impairment 2,074 1,265 49 474 111 3,973 Loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality - - - - - - Balance at December 31, 2013 $ 21,372 $ 8,355 $ 7,235 $ 25,134 $ 1,632 $ 67,970 Loans: Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 1,360,965 $ 686,343 $ 315,008 $ 1,601,162 $ 143,186 $ 4,106,664 Individually evaluated for impairment 22,470 9,273 1,183 4,385 518 37,829 Loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality - - - - - - Balance at December 31, 2013 $ 1,383,435 $ 695,616 $ 316,191 $ 1,605,547 $ 143,704 $ 4,144,493 Commercial real estate - mortgage Consumer real estate - mortgage Construction and land development Commercial and industrial Consumer and other Unallocated Total Allowance for Loan Losses: Balance at December 31, 2011 $ 23,397 $ 10,302 $ 12,040 $ 20,789 $ 1,125 $ 6,322 $ 73,975 Charged-off loans (4,667 ) (6,731 ) (2,530 ) (4,612 ) (1,117 ) - (19,657 ) Recovery of previously charged-off loans 285 818 1,155 7,175 97 - 9,530 Provision for loan losses 619 4,373 (1,501 ) 1,386 989 (297 ) 5,569 Balance at December 31,2012 $ 19,634 $ 8,762 $ 9,164 $ 24,738 $ 1,094 $ 6,025 $ 69,417 Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 16,642 $ 7,336 $ 8,953 $ 23,829 $ 1,055 $ 57,815 Individually evaluated for impairment 2,992 1,426 211 909 39 5,577 Loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality - - - - - - Balance at December 31,2012 $ 19,634 $ 8,762 $ 9,164 $ 24,738 $ 1,094 $ 69,417 Loans: Collectively evaluated for impairment $ 1,148,641 $ 667,709 $ 308,972 $ 1,442,853 $ 93,712 $ 3,661,887 Individually evaluated for impairment 29,555 12,217 4,580 3,725 198 50,275 Loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality - - - - - - Balance at December 31,2012 $ 1,178,196 $ 679,926 $ 313,552 $ 1,446,578 $ 93,910 $ 3,712,162 The adequacy of the allowance for loan losses is assessed at the end of each calendar quarter. The level of the allowance is based upon evaluation of the loan portfolio, historical loss experience, current asset quality trends, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers' ability to repay (including the timing of future payment), the estimated value of any underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, economic conditions, historical loss experience, industry and peer bank loan quality indications and other pertinent factors, including regulatory recommendations. 92 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial had granted loans and other extensions of credit amounting to approximately $6.4 million to current directors, executive officers, and their related entities, of which $2.9 million had been drawn upon. At December 31, 2013, Pinnacle Financial had granted loans and other extensions of credit amounting to approximately $11.2 million to directors, executive officers, and their related entities, of which approximately $8.9 million had been drawn upon. These loans and extensions of credit were made in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable loans to persons not related to Pinnacle Bank and did not involve more than the normal risk of collectability or present other unfavorable features. None of these loans to directors, executive officers, and their related entities were impaired at December 31, 2014 or December 31, 2013. Residential Lending At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial had approximately $14.0 million of mortgage loans held-for-sale compared to approximately $12.9 million at December 31, 2013. Total loan volumes sold during the year ended December 31, 2014 were approximately $335.6 million compared to approximately $419.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2013. Traditionally, Pinnacle Financial would deliver residential loans that it had closed with borrowers to investors under a best efforts basis. Under this method, an investor would have agreed to purchase a particular loan from Pinnacle Financial once the loan had closed with the borrower and the loan satisfied the investor's underwriting criteria. Additionally, under the best efforts method, if a particular loan did not close, Pinnacle Financial was not obligated to deliver an alternative loan or otherwise compensate the investor that had previously agreed to purchase the loan for failure by Pinnacle Financial to deliver the loan. During the first quarter of 2014, Pinnacle Financial began delivering loans on a mandatory basis to its approved investors. The governing mandatory delivery agreements require that Pinnacle Financial deliver an individual loan contract to the investor or compensate the investor in the event the closed loan does not ultimately settle. As a result, mandatory delivery typically results in more advantageous pricing in the wholesale market. However, mandatory delivery exposes Pinnacle Financial to risks associated with failure to ultimately deliver the loan to the investor as well as interest rate risk between the initial rate-lock date and the date of the ultimate sale of the loan to an investor. Pinnacle Financial entered into a short-term economic hedging relationship with a third party for a fee to mitigate this interest rate exposure. Pinnacle Financial remains exposed to the impact interest rate fluctuations could have on investor demand for these loans and the resulting valuation of our loan pipeline. Fluctuations in interest rates also impact consumer behavior which could impact our ability to deliver these loans to our investors. These items impact our net revenues from this line of business. Pinnacle Financial has not entered into any forward commitments with investors for future bulk loan sales. All of these residential loan sales transfer servicing rights to the buyer. During the year ended December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial recognized $5.6 million in gains on the sale of these loans, net of commissions paid, compared to $6.2 million during the year ended December 31, 2013. These mortgage loans held-for-sale are originated internally and are primarily to borrowers in Pinnacle Bank's geographic markets. These sales are typically on a mandatory basis to investors that follow conventional government sponsored entities (GSE) and the Department of Housing and Urban Development/U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (HUD/VA) guidelines. Each purchaser has specific guidelines and criteria for sellers of loans, and the risk of credit loss with regard to the principal amount of the loans sold is generally transferred to the purchasers upon sale. While the loans are sold without recourse, the purchase agreements require Pinnacle Bank to make certain representations and warranties regarding the existence and sufficiency of file documentation and the absence of fraud by borrowers or other third parties such as appraisers in connection with obtaining the loan. If it is determined that the loans sold were in breach of these representations or warranties, Pinnacle Bank has obligations to either repurchase the loan for the unpaid principal balance and related investor fees or make the purchaser whole for the economic benefits of the loan. To date, repurchase activity pursuant to the terms of these representations and warranties has been insignificant to Pinnacle Bank. 93 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 7. Premises and Equipment and Lease Commitments Premises and equipment at December 31, 2014 and 2013 are summarized as follows (in thousands): Range of Useful Lives 2014 2013 Land Not applicable $ 19,829 $ 19,281 Buildings 15 to 30 years 50,458 48,558 Leasehold improvements 15 to 20 years 21,589 20,283 Furniture and equipment 3 to 15 years 51,973 51,673 143,849 139,795 Accumulated depreciation and amortization (72,273 ) (67,145 ) $ 71,576 $ 72,650 Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $5.1 million, $6.0 million, and $6.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Pinnacle Financial has entered into various operating leases, primarily for office space and branch facilities. Rent expense related to these leases for 2014, 2013 and 2012 totaled $4.9 million, $4.4 million and $4.1 million, respectively. At December 31, 2014, the approximate future minimum lease payments due under the aforementioned operating leases for their base term are as follows (in thousands): 2015 $ 4,093 2016 4,189 2017 4,042 2018 3,829 2019 3,732 Thereafter 25,285 $ 45,170 Note 8. Deposits At December 31, 2014, the scheduled maturities of time deposits are as follows (in thousands): 2015 $ 338,314 2016 57,378 2017 30,982 2018 2,540 2019 1,930 Thereafter - $ 431,144 Additionally, at December 31, 2014 and 2013, approximately $67.8 million and $77.8 million, respectively, of time deposits had been issued in denominations of $250,000 or greater. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, Pinnacle Financial had $922,000 and $828,000, respectively, of deposit accounts in overdraft status and thus have been reclassified to loans on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. 94 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 9. Federal Home Loan Bank Advances Pinnacle Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati (FHLB) and as a result, is eligible for advances from the FHLB pursuant to the terms of various borrowing agreements, which assist Pinnacle Bank in the funding of its home mortgage and commercial real estate loan portfolios. Pinnacle Bank has pledged certain qualifying residential mortgage loans and, pursuant to a blanket lien, certain qualifying commercial mortgage loans with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $1.3 billion as collateral under the borrowing agreements with the FHLB. At December 31, 2014 and 2013, Pinnacle Financial had received advances from the FHLB totaling $195.4 million and $90.5 million, respectively. Additionally, Pinnacle Financial recognized a discount on FHLB advances in conjunction with previous acquisitions. The remaining discount was $91,000 and $158,000 at December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. At December 31, 2014, the scheduled maturities of these advances and interest rates are as follows (in thousands): Scheduled Maturities Weighted average interest rates 2015 $ 180,000 0.16 % 2016 15,000 0.18 % 2017 - - 2018 8 2.00 % 2019 - - Thereafter 378 2.43 % $ 195,386 Weighted average interest rate 0.17 % During 2013, Pinnacle Bank restructured approximately $35.0 million of FHLB advances to reduce its ongoing funding costs. This restructuring was undertaken to reduce the weighted average interest rates on those FHLB advances from 1.79%, which was significantly higher than the rate for replacement funding. Other than the interest rates, the terms of the replacement advances are similar to those of the advances restructured. This restructuring resulted in a one-time charge of $877,000 during the first quarter of 2013. No restructuring of FHLB advances occurred during the year ended December 31, 2014. At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Bank had accommodations which allow it to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta's discount window and purchase Federal funds from several of its correspondent banks on an overnight basis at prevailing overnight market rates. These accommodations are subject to various restrictions as to their term and availability, and in most cases, must be repaid within less than a month. At December 31, 2014, there was no balance owed to the Federal Reserve Bank or other correspondents under these agreements. At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Bank had approximately $2.2 billion in borrowing availability with the FHLB, the Federal Reserve Bank discount window, and other correspondent banks with whom Pinnacle Bank has arranged lines of credit. 95 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 10. Investments in Affiliated Companies and Subordinated Debt Beginning on December 29, 2003, Pinnacle Financial established Trusts that were created for the exclusive purpose of issuing 30-year capital trust preferred securities and used the proceeds to acquire junior subordinated debentures (Subordinated Debentures) issued by Pinnacle Financial. The sole assets of the Trusts are the Subordinated Debentures. The $2,476,000 investment in the Trusts is included in other investments in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the $82,476,000 obligation is reflected as subordinated debt. The details of the Trusts established are as follows: Date Established Maturity Common Securities Trust Preferred Securities Floating Interest Rate Interest Rate at December 31, 2014 Trust I December 29, 2003 December 30, 2033 $ 310,000 $ 10,000,000 Libor + 2.80% 3.04 % Trust II September 15, 2005 September 30, 2035 619,000 20,000,000 Libor + 1.40% 1.66 % Trust III September 7, 2006 September 30, 2036 619,000 20,000,000 Libor + 1.65% 1.91 % Trust IV October 31, 2007 September 30, 2037 928,000 30,000,000 Libor + 2.85% 3.09 % Distributions are payable quarterly. The Trust Preferred Securities are subject to mandatory redemption upon repayment of the Subordinated Debentures at their stated maturity date or their earlier redemption in an amount equal to their liquidation amount plus accumulated and unpaid distributions to the date of redemption. Pinnacle Financial guarantees the payment of distributions and payments for redemption or liquidation of the Trust Preferred Securities to the extent of funds held by the Trusts. Pinnacle Financial's obligations under the Subordinated Debentures together with the guarantee and other back-up obligations, in the aggregate, constitute a full and unconditional guarantee by Pinnacle Financial of the obligations of the Trusts under the Trust Preferred Securities. The Subordinated Debentures are unsecured, bear interest at a rate equal to the rates paid by the Trusts on the Trust Preferred Securities and mature on the same dates as those noted above for the Trust Preferred Securities. Interest is payable quarterly. We may defer the payment of interest at any time for a period not exceeding 20 consecutive quarters provided that the deferral period does not extend past the stated maturity. During any such deferral period, distributions on the Trust Preferred Securities will also be deferred and our ability to pay dividends on our common shares will be restricted. The Trust Preferred Securities may be redeemed prior to maturity at our option. The Trust Preferred Securities may also be redeemed at any time in whole (but not in part) in the event of unfavorable changes in laws or regulations that result in (1) the Trust becoming subject to federal income tax on income received on the Subordinated Debentures, (2) interest payable by the parent company on the Subordinated Debentures becoming non-deductible for federal tax purposes, (3) the requirement for the Trust to register under the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, or (4) loss of the ability to treat the Trust Preferred Securities as "Tier I capital" under the Federal Reserve capital adequacy guidelines. Under current Federal Reserve capital adequacy guidelines, the Trust Preferred Securities are treated as Tier I capital so long as Pinnacle Financial has less than $15 billion in assets. 96 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Combined summary financial information for the Trusts follows (in thousands): Combined Summary Balance Sheets December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Asset Investment in subordinated debentures issued by Pinnacle Financial $ 82,476 $ 82,476 Liabilities $ - $ - Stockholder's equity Trust preferred securities 80,000 80,000 Common securities (100% owned by Pinnacle Financial) 2,476 2,476 Total stockholder's equity 82,476 82,476 Total liabilities and stockholder's equity $ 82,476 $ 82,476 Combined Summary Income Statements Year ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Income Interest income from subordinated debentures issued by Pinnacle Financial $ 2,020 $ 2,057 $ 2,218 Net Income $ 2,020 $ 2,057 $ 2,218 Combined Summary Statements of Stockholder's Equity Trust Preferred Securities Total Common Stock Retained Earnings Stockholder's Equity Balances, December 31, 2011 $ 80,000 $ 2,476 $ - $ 82,476 Net income - - 2,218 2,218 Issuance of trust preferred securities - - - - Dividends: Trust preferred securities - - (2,151 ) (2,151 ) Common- paid to Pinnacle Financial - - (67 ) (67 ) Balances, December 31, 2012 $ 80,000 $ 2,476 $ - $ 82,476 Net income - - 2,057 2,057 Issuance of trust preferred securities - - - - Dividends: Trust preferred securities - - (1,995 ) (1,995 ) Common- paid to Pinnacle Financial - - (62 ) (62 ) Balances, December 31, 2013 $ 80,000 $ 2,476 $ - $ 82,476 Net income - - 2,020 2,020 Issuance of trust preferred securities - - - - Dividends: Trust preferred securities - - (1,957 ) (1,957 ) Common- paid to Pinnacle Financial - - (63 ) (63 ) Balances, December 31, 2014 $ 80,000 $ 2,476 $ - $ 82,476 97 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 11. Income Taxes Income tax expense (benefit) attributable to continuing operations for each of the years ended December 31 is as follows (in thousands): 2014 2013 2012 Current tax expense : Federal $ 34,068 $ 26,317 $ 19,096 State 719 - - Total current tax expense $ 34,787 26,317 19,096 Deferred tax expense (benefit): Federal (1,260 ) 240 485 State 1,655 1,601 1,063 Total deferred tax expense 395 1,841 1,548 Total income tax expense $ 35,182 $ 28,158 $ 20,644 Pinnacle Financial's income tax expense (benefit) differs from the amounts computed by applying the Federal income tax statutory rates of 35% to income (loss) before income taxes. A reconciliation of the differences for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014 is as follows (in thousands): 2014 2013 2012 Income tax expense at statutory rate $ 36,978 $ 30,059 $ 21,885 State excise tax expense, net of federal tax effect 1,827 1,601 1,063 Tax-exempt securities (2,675 ) (2,603 ) (2,517 ) Federal tax credits - - - Bank owned life insurance (849 ) (740 ) (322 ) Insurance premiums (401 ) (349 ) (243 ) Change in uncertain tax positions 392 - - Other items (90 ) 190 778 Deferred tax valuation allowance - - - Income tax expense $ 35,182 $ 28,158 $ 20,644 Pinnacle Financial's effective tax rate for 2014 and 2013 differs from the Federal income tax statutory rate of 35% primarily due to a state excise tax expense, investments in bank qualified municipal securities, bank owned life insurance, and tax savings from our captive insurance subsidiary, PNFP Insurance, Inc. 98 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The components of deferred income taxes included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2014 and 2013 are as follows (in thousands): 2014 2013 Deferred tax assets: Loan loss allowance $ 25,783 $ 26,134 Loans 971 914 Insurance 773 732 Accrued liability for supplemental retirement agreements 531 538 Restricted stock and stock options 4,159 4,100 Net operating loss carryforward 377 1,914 Other real estate owned 1,540 2,231 Other deferred tax assets 1,525 1,177 Total deferred tax assets 35,659 37,740 Deferred tax liabilities: Depreciation and amortization 4,827 6,145 Core deposit intangible asset 904 1,242 Securities 5,954 (1,704 ) Cash flow hedge 161 2,591 REIT dividends 1,523 1,393 FHLB related liabilities 1,187 1,316 Other deferred tax liabilities 489 521 Total deferred tax liabilities 15,045 11,504 Net deferred tax assets $ 20,614 $ 26,236 ASC 740, Income Taxes , defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more-likely-than-not" to be sustained by the taxing authority. This section also provides guidance on the derecognition, measurement and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties, and includes guidance concerning accounting for income tax uncertainties in interim periods. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending unrecognized tax benefit related to State uncertain tax positions is as follows (in thousands): 2014 2013 2012 Balance at January 1, $ - - - Increases due to tax positions taken during the current year - - - Increases due to tax positions taken during a prior year 391 - - Decreases due to the lapse of the statute of limitations during the current year - - - Decreases due to settlements with the taxing authorities during the current year - - - Balance at December 31, $ 391 - - Pinnacle Financial's policy is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. The total amounts of interest and penalties recorded in the income statement for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $140,000. No interest and penalties were recorded for each of the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012. 99 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 12. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities In the normal course of business, Pinnacle Financial has entered into off-balance sheet financial instruments which include commitments to extend credit (i.e., including unfunded lines of credit) and standby letters of credit. Commitments to extend credit are usually the result of lines of credit granted to existing borrowers under agreements that the total outstanding indebtedness will not exceed a specific amount during the term of the indebtedness. Typical borrowers are commercial concerns that use lines of credit to supplement their treasury management functions, thus their total outstanding indebtedness may fluctuate during any time period based on the seasonality of their business and the resultant timing of their cash flows. Other typical lines of credit are related to home equity loans granted to consumers. Commitments to extend credit generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. At December 31, 2014, these commitments amounted to $1.391 billion, of which approximately $213.5 million related to home equity lines of credit. Standby letters of credit are generally issued on behalf of an applicant (customer) to a specifically named beneficiary and are the result of a particular business arrangement that exists between the applicant and the beneficiary. Standby letters of credit have fixed expiration dates and are usually for terms of two years or less unless terminated beforehand due to criteria specified in the standby letter of credit. A typical arrangement involves the applicant routinely being indebted to the beneficiary for such items as inventory purchases, insurance, utilities, lease guarantees or other third party commercial transactions. The standby letter of credit would permit the beneficiary to obtain payment from Pinnacle Financial under certain prescribed circumstances. Subsequently, Pinnacle Financial would then seek reimbursement from the applicant pursuant to the terms of the standby letter of credit. At December 31, 2014, these commitments amounted to $66.0 million. Pinnacle Financial follows the same credit policies and underwriting practices when making these commitments as it does for on-balance sheet instruments. Each customer's creditworthiness is evaluated on a case-by-case basis and the amount of collateral obtained, if any, is based on management's credit evaluation of the customer. Collateral held varies but may include cash, real estate and improvements, marketable securities, accounts receivable, inventory, equipment, and personal property. The contractual amounts of these commitments are not reflected in the consolidated financial statements and would only be reflected if drawn upon. Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the contractual amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. However, should the commitments be drawn upon and should our customers default on their resulting obligation to us, Pinnacle Financial's maximum exposure to credit loss, without consideration of collateral, is represented by the contractual amount of those instruments. At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial had accrued $1.4 million for the inherent risks associated with off balance sheet commitments. Various legal claims also arise from time to time in the normal course of business. In the opinion of management, the resolution of these routine claims outstanding at December 31, 2014 will not have a material impact on Pinnacle Financial's consolidated financial condition, operating results or cash flows. Note 13. Salary Deferral Plans Pinnacle Financial has a 401(k) retirement plan (the 401k Plan) covering all employees who elect to participate, subject to certain eligibility requirements. The Plan allows employees to defer up to 50% of their salary subject to regulatory limitations with Pinnacle Financial matching 100% of the first 4% of employee self-directed contributions during 2014, 2013, and 2012. Pinnacle Financial's expense associated with the matching component of the plan for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014 was approximately $2,381,000, $2,241,000 and $2,185,000, respectively, and is included in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations in salaries and employee benefits expense. 100 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Prior to the merger with Pinnacle Financial on March 15, 2006, Cavalry had adopted nonqualified noncontributory supplemental retirement agreements (the Cavalry SRAs) for certain directors and executive officers of Cavalry. Cavalry invested in and, as a result of the Cavalry merger, Pinnacle Financial is the owner of single premium life insurance policies on the life of each participant and is the beneficiary of the policy value. When a participant retires, the accumulated gains on the policy allocated to such participant, if any, will be distributed to the participant in equal installments for 15 years (the Primary Benefit). In addition, any annual gains after the retirement date of the participant will be distributed on an annual basis for the lifetime of the participant (the Secondary Benefit). As a result of the merger with Pinnacle Financial, all participants became fully vested in the Cavalry SRAs. No new participants have been added to the Cavalry SRAs following the merger with Pinnacle Financial. The Cavalry SRAs also provide the participants with death benefits, which is a percentage of the net death proceeds for the policy, if any, applicable to the participant. The death benefits are not taxable to Pinnacle Financial or the participant's beneficiary. Pinnacle Financial recognized approximately $99,000, $178,000, and $220,000 in compensation expense in each year of the three-year period ended December 31, 2014 related to the Cavalry SRAs. During 2007, Pinnacle Financial offered a settlement to all participants in the Cavalry SRAs with eleven participants accepting the settlement. Two individuals remain as participants in the Cavalry SRAs. At December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, included in other liabilities is $1,352,000, $1,373,000, and $1,301,000, respectively, which represents the net present value of the future obligation owed the two remaining participants in the Cavalry SRAs using a discount rate of 5% at December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. Note 14. Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and Restricted Shares At Pinnacle Financial's annual shareholders' meeting on April 15, 2014, the shareholders of Pinnacle Financial adopted the 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (the "2014 Plan"). The 2014 Plan addressed the following matters: Consolidation of the two existing equity incentive plans, the Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. 2004 Amended and Restated Equity Incentive Plan (the "2004 Plan") and the Mid-America Bancshares, Inc. 2006 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (the "Mid-America Plan") including approximately 396,000 shares in the aggregate that remained available for issuance under those two plans at that date; and Increased the maximum number of shares of common stock that may be issued to associates and directors by an additional 930,000 shares. Total shares available for issuance under the 2014 Plan were approximately 1.3 million shares as of December 31, 2014, inclusive of shares returned to plan reserves during the twelve months ended December 31, 2014. The 2014 Plan also permits Pinnacle Financial to reissue awards currently outstanding under the 2004 Plan and the Mid-America Plan that are subsequently forfeited or expired unexercised and returned to the 2014 Plan. Common Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights As of December 31, 2014, of the approximately 695,000 stock options and 3,700 stock appreciation rights outstanding, 636,000 options were granted with the intention to be incentive stock options qualifying under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code for favorable tax treatment to the option holder while 63,000 options would be deemed non-qualified stock options or stock appreciation rights and thus not subject to favorable tax treatment to the option holder. Favorable treatment generally refers to the recipient of the award not having to report ordinary income at the date of exercise. All stock options granted under the Pinnacle Financial equity incentive plans vest in equal increments over five years from the date of grant and are exercisable over a period of ten years from the date of grant. All stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under the Cavalry Plan and Mid-America Plans were fully-vested at the date of those mergers. 101 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS A summary of stock option and stock appreciation right activity within the equity incentive plans during each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014 and information regarding expected vesting, contractual terms remaining, intrinsic values and other matters was as follows: Number Weighted- Average Exercise Price Weighted- Average Contractual Remaining Term (in years) Aggregate Intrinsic Value (1) (000's) Outstanding at December 31, 2011 1,581,038 $ 20.81 Granted - - Stock options exercised (245,201 ) 6.78 Stock appreciation rights exercised (2) (348 ) 15.60 Forfeited (17,108 ) 25.90 Outstanding at December 31, 2012 1,318,381 $ 23.36 Granted - - Stock options exercised (279,534 ) 14.07 Stock appreciation rights exercised (2) (1,732 ) 15.60 Forfeited (34,615 ) 29.31 Outstanding at December 31, 2013 1,002,500 $ 25.77 Granted - - Stock options exercised (301,794 ) 23.21 Stock appreciation rights exercised (2) (1,586 ) 15.60 Forfeited (632 ) 24.95 Outstanding at December 31, 2014 698,488 $ 26.89 1.90 $9,071 Options exercisable at December 31, 2014 698,488 $ 26.89 1.90 $9,071 (1) The aggregate intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the underlying awards and the quoted price of Pinnacle Financial common stock of $39.54 per common share at December 31, 2014 for the 698,488 options and stock appreciation rights that were in-the-money at December 31, 2014. (2) The 348 stock appreciation rights exercised during 2012 settled in 28 shares of Pinnacle Financial common stock. The 1,732 stock appreciation rights exercised during 2013 settled in 471 shares of Pinnacle Financial common stock. The 1,586 stock appreciation rights exercised during 2014 settled in 609 shares of Pinnacle Financial common stock. During each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014, the aggregate intrinsic value of options and stock appreciation rights exercised under Pinnacle Financial's equity incentive plans was $3,950,000, $3,622,000 and $2,501,000, respectively, determined as of the date of option exercise. As of December 31, 2014, there was no unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock options granted under our equity incentive plans. 102 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Pinnacle Financial adopted ASC 718-20 Compensation using the modified prospective transition method on January 1, 2006. Accordingly, during the three-years ended December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial recorded stock-based compensation expense using the Black-Scholes valuation model for awards granted prior to, but not yet vested, as of January 1, 2006 and for all stock-based awards granted after January 1, 2006, based on fair value estimates using the Black-Scholes valuation model. For these awards, Pinnacle Financial has recognized compensation expense using a straight-line amortization method. As ASC 718-20 requires that stock-based compensation expense be based on awards that are ultimately expected to vest, stock-based compensation for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. The impact on the results of operations (compensation and employee benefits expense) and earnings per share of recording stock-based compensation in accordance with ASC 718-20 (related to stock option awards) for the three-year period ended December 31, 2014 was as follows (in thousands): For the year ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Non-qualified stock options Stock-based compensation expense $ - $ 13 $ 394 Income tax benefit - 5 155 Stock-based compensation expense after income tax benefit $ - $ 8 $ 239 Impact on per share results from stock-based compensation: Basic $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.01 Fully diluted $ 0.00 $ 0.00 $ 0.01 There have been no options granted by Pinnacle Financial since 2008. Restricted Shares Additionally, the 2014 Plan provides for the granting of restricted share awards and other performance or market-based awards. There were no market-based awards or stock appreciation rights outstanding as of December 31, 2014 under the 2014 Plan. During the three-year period ended December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial awarded 126,117, 164,602 and 156,645 shares of restricted stock to certain Pinnacle Financial associates and outside directors. Also, Pinnacle Financial issued 186,943 and 225,228 restricted share units in the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. These restricted share units converted to 186,943 and 193,189 restricted share awards in 2014 and 2013, respectively. A summary of activity for unvested restricted share awards for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 follows: Number Grant Date Weighted-Average Cost Unvested at December 31, 2011 849,703 $ 15.61 Shares awarded 156,645 16.48 Restrictions lapsed and shares released to associates/directors (211,913 ) 16.28 Shares forfeited (54,526 ) 18.23 Unvested at December 31, 2012 739,909 $ 15.45 Shares awarded 164,602 21.78 Conversion of restricted share units to restricted share awards 193,189 21.51 Restrictions lapsed and shares released to associates/directors (221,325 ) 15.97 Shares forfeited (54,680 ) 15.30 Unvested at December 31, 2013 821,695 $ 19.18 Shares awarded 126,117 33.32 Conversion of restricted share units to restricted share awards 186,943 31.68 Restrictions lapsed and shares released to associates/directors (249,684 ) 18.19 Shares forfeited (35,873 ) 20.70 Unvested at December 31, 2014 849,198 $ 24.26 103 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Pinnacle Financial grants restricted share awards to associates, executive management and outside directors with a combination of time and performance vesting criteria. The following tables outline restricted stock grants that were made by grant year, grouped by similar vesting criteria, during the three year period ended December 31, 2014. The table below reflects the life-to-date activity for these awards: Grant Year Group (1) Vesting Period in years Shares awarded Restrictions Lapsed and shares released to participants (1) Shares Withheld for taxes by participants (1) Shares Forfeited by participants Shares Unvested Time Based Awards (2) 2012 Associates 5 141,665 37,912 14,404 16,710 72,639 2013 Associates 5 150,125 21,223 8,177 9,005 111,720 2014 Associates 5 113,918 82 43 2,807 110,986 Performance Based Awards (3) 2013 Leadership team (4) 5 193,189 28,140 10,496 4,219 150,334 2014 Leadership team (4) 5 186,943 - - 4,386 182,557 Outside Director Awards (5) 2012 Outside directors 1 14,980 12,730 2,250 - - 2013 Outside directors 1 14,477 12,062 2,415 - - 2014 Outside directors 1 12,199 - - - 12,199 (1) Groups include our employees (referred to as Associates above), our executive managers (referred to as our Leadership Team above) and our outside directors. Included in the Leadership Team awards noted above are awards to our named executive officers. When the restricted shares are awarded, a participant receives voting rights with respect to the shares, but is not able to transfer the shares other than to Pinnacle Financial in satisfaction of withholding tax obligations until the later of the date that the forfeiture restrictions have lapsed and, for awards issued prior to the redemption of the preferred stock issued under the CPP, the later of the date that the forfeiture restrictions lapse and the date we redeemed the remaining outstanding shares of Series A preferred stock issued to the US Treasury pursuant to the CPP, which was completed on June 21, 2012. Once the forfeiture restrictions lapse, the participant is taxed on the value of the award and may elect to sell shares to pay the applicable income taxes associated with the award or have these shares remitted to Pinnacle Financial. For time-based restricted share awards, dividends paid on shares for which the forfeiture restrictions do not lapse will be recouped by the Company at the time of termination. For performance-based restricted share awards, dividends are placed into escrow until the forfeiture restrictions on such shares lapse. (2) These shares vest in equal annual installments on the first five anniversary dates of the grant. (3) The forfeiture restrictions on these restricted share awards lapse in separate equal installments should Pinnacle Financial achieve certain earnings and soundness targets over each year of the subsequent vesting period (or alternatively, the cumulative vesting period), excluding the impact of any merger related expenses. (4) The forfeiture restrictions on these restricted share awards lapse in separate equal installments should Pinnacle Financial achieve soundness targets over each year of the subsequent vesting period. (5) Restricted share awards are issued to the outside members of the board of directors in accordance with their board compensation plan. Restrictions lapsed on the one year anniversary date of the award based on each individual board member meeting his/her attendance goals for the various board and board committee meetings to which each member was scheduled to attend. 104 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Compensation expense associated with the performance based restricted share awards is recognized over the time period that the restrictions associated with the awards are anticipated to lapse based on a graded vesting schedule such that each traunche is amortized separately. Compensation expense associated with the time based restricted share awards is recognized over the time period that the restrictions associated with the awards lapse on a straight-line basis based on the total cost of the award. A summary of compensation expense, net of the impact of income taxes, related to restricted stock awards for the three-year period ended December 31, 2014, follows (in thousands): For the year ended December 31, 2014 2013 2012 Restricted stock expense $ 4,970 $ 4,070 $ 3,270 Income tax benefit 1,951 1,597 1,283 Restricted stock expense, net of income tax benefit $ 3,019 $ 2,473 $ 1,987 Impact on per share results from restricted stock expense: Basic $ 0.09 $ 0.07 $ 0.06 Fully diluted $ 0.09 $ 0.07 $ 0.06 Restricted Share Units Pinnacle Financial granted restricted share units to the senior executive officers and the Leadership Team in the first quarter of 2014. The senior executive officers' restricted share unit award included a range from 58,404 units at the target compensation level to 102,209 units at the maximum compensation level. The Leadership Team restricted share unit award of 29,087 units was granted at a target level of performance. For both senior executive officers and the Leadership Team, one-third of these restricted share units will be settled with the issuance of 43,711 restricted shares upon the filing of Pinnacle Financial's 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The remaining restricted share units are eligible for conversion to restricted share awards in pro-rata increments based on the Company's achievement of certain predetermined goals for each of the fiscal years ended December 31, 2015 and 2016, respectively. Upon conversion to restricted share awards, the restrictions on these shares will lapse in 2018 and 2019 in 50% increments based on the attainment of certain soundness targets in fiscal 2017 and 2018, respectively. The performance metrics and soundness criteria for each of the impacted fiscal years were established concurrently with the restricted share unit grants in January 2014 by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee of Pinnacle Financial's board of directors (HRCC). These restricted share units are being expensed based on the requisite service period of the underlying traunche of the award. Each period, the number of shares that is expected to lapse to the recipient is reevaluated and the associated compensation expense is adjusted accordingly. For the year ended December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial recognized expense associated with the first traunche of this award totaling $338,485. Note 15. Derivative Instruments Financial derivatives are reported at fair value in other assets or other liabilities. The accounting for changes in the fair value of a derivative depends on whether it has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship. For derivatives not designated as hedges, the gain or loss is recognized in current period earnings. Non-hedge derivatives Pinnacle Financial enters into interest rate swaps (swaps) to facilitate customer transactions and meet their financing needs. Upon entering into these instruments to meet customer needs, Pinnacle Financial enters into offsetting positions in order to minimize the risk. These swaps qualify as derivatives, but are not designated as hedging instruments. 105 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Interest rate swap contracts involve the risk of dealing with counterparties and their ability to meet contractual terms. As such, Pinnacle Financial has recorded a credit valuation adjustment for counter-party credit risk. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is positive, this generally indicates that the counter party or customer owes Pinnacle Financial, and results in credit risk to Pinnacle Financial. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is negative, Pinnacle Financial owes the customer or counterparty and therefore, Pinnacle Financial has no credit risk. A summary of Pinnacle Financial's interest rate swaps to facilitate customer transactions as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 is included in the following table (in thousands): At December 31, 2014 At December 31, 2013 Notional Amount Estimated Fair Value Notional Amount Estimated Fair Value Interest rate swap agreements: Pay fixed / receive variable swaps $ 251,321 $ 13,030 $ 294,486 $ 13,296 Pay variable / receive fixed swaps 251,321 (13,435 ) 294,486 (13,670 ) Total $ 502,642 $ (405 ) $ 588,972 $ (374 ) Hedge derivatives Pinnacle Financial has forward cash flow hedge relationships to manage future interest rate exposure. The hedging strategy converts the LIBOR based variable interest rate on forecasted borrowings to a fixed interest rate and protects Pinnacle Financial from floating interest rate variability. The initial hedge relationships were entered into during the second quarter of 2013. During the third quarter of 2014, Pinnacle Financial terminated three individual contracts of the initial hedge relationships based on changes in internal forecasts for future interest rates. As a result of terminating these contracts, Pinnacle Financial will incur a gain of $64,000 over the original terms of these agreements which begin in April 2015. Pinnacle Financial entered into additional forward cash flow hedge relationships for interest rate risk management purposes given the aforementioned changes in forecasted interest rates. The terms of the individual contracts within the existing relationship at each year end are as follows (in thousands): December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Forecasted Notional Amount Receive Rate Pay Rate Term (1) Asset/ (Liabilities) Unrealized Loss in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Asset/ (Liabilities) Unrealized Gain in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Interest Rate Swap $ 33,000 3 month LIBOR 1.428 % April 2015-April 2018 $ - $ - $ 463 $ 281 Interest Rate Swap 33,000 3 month LIBOR 1.857 % Oct.2015-April 2019 - - 837 509 Interest Rate Swap 33,000 3 month LIBOR 1.996 % Oct. 2015-Oct. 2019 - - 1,007 612 Interest Rate Swap 33,000 3 month LIBOR 2.265 % April 2016-April 2020 (96 ) (58 ) 1,172 712 Interest Rate Swap 34,000 3 month LIBOR 2.646 % April 2016-April 2022 (531 ) (323 ) 1,818 1,105 Interest Rate Swap 34,000 3 month LIBOR 2.523 % Oct. 2016-Oct. 2020 (210 ) (128 ) 1,307 794 Interest Rate Swap 33,000 3 month LIBOR 2.992 % Oct. 2017-Oct. 2021 (517 ) (314 ) - - Interest Rate Swap 33,000 3 month LIBOR 3.118 % April 2018-July 2022 (590 ) (359 ) - - Interest Rate Swap 33,000 3 month LIBOR 3.158 % July 2018-Oct. 2022 (602 ) (366 ) - - $ 299,000 $ (2,546 ) $ (1,548 ) $ 6,604 $ 4,014 (1) No cash will be exchanged prior to the term. 106 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During the second quarter of 2014, Pinnacle Financial entered into four interest rate swap agreements as part of the management of interest rate risk. Pinnacle Financial designated the interest rate swaps as cash flow hedges intended to protect against the variability of cash flows on selected LIBOR based loans. The swaps hedge the interest rate risk, wherein Pinnacle Financial receives a fixed rate of interest from a counterparty and pays a variable rate, based on one month LIBOR. The terms of the respective swaps range from seven to ten years and commenced on July 1, 2014. The swaps were entered into with a counterparty that met Pinnacle Financial's credit standards and the agreements contains collateral provisions protecting the at-risk party. Pinnacle Financial believes that the credit risk inherent in the contract is not significant. December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Forecasted Notional Amount Receive Rate Pay Rate Term (1) Asset/ (Liabilities) Unrealized Gain in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Asset/ (Liabilities) Unrealized Gain in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income Interest Rate Swap $ 27,500 2.09 % 1 month LIBOR July 2014 - July 2021 $ 941 $ 572 $ - $ - Interest Rate Swap 27,500 2.27 % 1 month LIBOR July 2014 - July 2022 409 249 - - Interest Rate Swap 27,500 2.42 % 1 month LIBOR July 2014 - July 2023 651 396 - - Interest Rate Swap 27,500 2.50 % 1 month LIBOR July 2014 - July 2024 956 581 - - $ 110,000 $ 2,957 $ 1,798 $ - $ - (1) No cash will be exchanged prior to the term. The cash flow hedges were determined to be fully effective during the period presented. And therefore, no amount of ineffectiveness has been included in net income. The aggregate fair value of the swaps is recorded in other assets with changes in fair value recorded in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax. If a hedge was deemed to be ineffective, the amount included in accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income would be reclassified to current earnings. The hedge would no longer be considered effective if a portion of the swap becomes ineffective, the forecasted transaction is no longer probable or Pinnacle Financial discontinues hedge accounting. Pinnacle Financial expects the hedges to remain fully effective during the remaining terms of the swaps. Pinnacle Financial does not expect any amounts to be reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income related to these swaps over the next twelve months. Note 16. Employment Contracts Pinnacle Financial has entered into, and subsequently amended, employment agreements with four of its senior executives: the President and Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Administrative Officer and the Chief Financial Officer. These agreements, as amended, automatically renew each year on January 1 for an additional year unless any of the parties to the agreements gives notice of intent not to renew the agreement prior to November 30th of the preceding year, in which case the agreement terminates 30 days later. The agreements specify that in certain defined "Terminating Events," Pinnacle Financial will be obligated to pay each of the four senior executives certain amounts, which vary according to the Terminating Event, which is based on their annual salaries and bonuses. These Terminating Events include disability, cause, without cause and other events. During 2012, Pinnacle Financial entered into, and subsequently amended, a change of control agreement with its Senior Credit Officer providing the employee with certain benefits if his employment is terminated under certain scenarios within twelve months of a change in control. This agreement automatically renews each year on January 1 unless a party to the agreement notifies the other parties of intent not to renew the agreement prior to November 30th of the preceding year, in which case the agreement terminates 30 days later. 107 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 17. Related Party Transactions A local public relations company, of which one of Pinnacle Financial's directors is a principal, provides various services for Pinnacle Financial. For each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial incurred approximately $36,000, $72,000, and $78,000, respectively, in expense for services rendered by this public relations company. Also see Note 6- "Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses", concerning loans and other extensions of credit to certain directors, officers, and their related entities and individuals and Note 13 Salary Deferral Plans regarding supplemental retirement agreement obligations to two directors who were formerly directors of Cavalry. Note 18. Fair Value of Financial Instruments FASB ASC 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , which defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in U.S. GAAP and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. The definition of fair value focuses on the exit price, i.e., the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, not the entry price, i.e., the price that would be paid to acquire the asset or received to assume the liability at the measurement date. The statement emphasizes that fair value is a market-based measurement; not an entity-specific measurement. Therefore, the fair value measurement should be determined based on the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. Valuation Hierarchy FASB ASC 820 establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The valuation hierarchy is based upon the transparency of inputs to the valuation of an asset or liability as of the measurement date. The three levels are defined as follows: Level 1 inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets. Level 2 inputs to the valuation methodology include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the financial instrument. Level 3 inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable and significant to the fair value measurement. A financial instrument's categorization within the valuation hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities measured at fair value, as well as the general classification of such assets and liabilities pursuant to the valuation hierarchy. Assets Securities available-for-sale Where quoted prices are available for identical securities in an active market, securities are classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Level 1 securities include highly liquid government securities and certain other financial products. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair values are estimated by using pricing models that use observable inputs or quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics and are classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. In certain cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs to the valuation and more complex pricing models or discounted cash flows are used, securities are classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 108 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Nonaccrual loans A loan is classified as nonaccrual when it is probable Pinnacle Financial will be unable to collect all principal and interest payments due in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Nonaccrual loans are measured based on the present value of expected payments using the loan's original effective rate as the discount rate, the loan's observable market price, or the fair value of the collateral less selling costs if the loan is collateral dependent. If the recorded investment in the nonaccrual loan exceeds the measure of fair value, a valuation allowance may be established as a component of the allowance for loan losses or the expense is recognized as a charge-off. Nonaccrual loans are classified within Level 3 of the hierarchy due to the unobservable inputs used in determining their fair value such as collateral values, expected cash flows, and the borrower's underlying financial condition. Other equity investments Included in other investments are alternative investments in certain nonpublic private equity funds. The valuation of nonpublic private equity fund investments requires significant management judgment due to the absence of observable quoted market prices, inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. These investments are valued initially based upon transaction price. The carrying values of alternative investments are adjusted either upwards or downwards from the transaction price to reflect expected exit values as evidenced by financing and sale transactions with third parties, or when determination of a valuation adjustment is confirmed through ongoing reviews by senior investment managers. A variety of factors are reviewed and monitored to assess positive and negative changes in valuation including, but not limited to, current operating performance and future expectations of the particular investment, industry valuations of comparable public companies and changes in market outlook and the third-party financing environment over time. In determining valuation adjustments resulting from the investment review process, emphasis is placed on current company performance and market conditions. These investments are included in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy as these funds are not widely traded and the underling investments of such funds are often privately-held and/or start-up companies for which market-values are not readily available. Other real estate owned Other real estate owned (OREO) represents real estate foreclosed upon, or acquired through deed in lieu of foreclosure, by Pinnacle Bank through loan defaults by customers. Substantially all of these amounts relate to lots, homes and development projects that are either completed or are in various stages of construction for which Pinnacle Financial believes it has adequate collateral. Upon foreclosure, the property is recorded at the lower of cost or fair value, based on appraised value, less selling costs estimated as of the date acquired with any loss recognized as a charge-off through the allowance for loan losses. Additional OREO losses for subsequent downward valuation adjustments are determined on a specific property basis and are included as a component of noninterest expense along with holding costs. Any gains or losses realized at the time of disposal are also reflected in noninterest expense, as applicable. OREO is included in Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy due to the lack of observable market inputs into the determination of fair value. Appraisal values are property-specific and sensitive to the changes in the overall economic environment. Other assets Included in other assets are certain assets carried at fair value, including interest rate swap agreements and the cash flow hedge relationships, as discussed more fully in footnote 15 above. The carrying amount of interest rate swap agreements is based on Pinnacle Financial's pricing models that utilize observable market inputs. The fair value of the cash flow hedge is determined using the income approach by comparing the discounted fixed rate cash flows with the discounted variable rate cash flows. Pinnacle Financial reflects these assets within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy as these assets are valued using similar transactions that occur in the market Liabilities Other liabilities Pinnacle Financial has certain liabilities carried at fair value including certain interest rate swap agreements. The fair value of these liabilities is based on Pinnacle Financial's pricing models that utilize observable market inputs and is reflected within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 109 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following tables present the financial instruments carried at fair value as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, by caption on the consolidated balance sheets and by FASB ASC 820 valuation hierarchy (as described above) (in thousands): December 31, 2014 Total carrying value in the consolidated balance sheet Quoted market prices in an active market (Level 1) Instruments valued with significant observable market parameters (Level 2) Instruments valued with significant unobservable market parameters (Level 3) Investment securities available-for-sale: U.S. government agency securities $ 113,456 $ - $ 113,456 $ - Mortgage-backed securities 455,839 - 455,839 - State and municipal securities 138,578 - 138,578 - Asset- backed securities 13,018 13,018 Corporate notes and other 11,164 - 11,164 - Total investment securities available-for-sale 732,055 - 732,055 $ - Other equity investments 8,004 - - 8,004 Other assets 15,987 - 14,265 - Total assets at fair value $ 756,046 $ - $ 746,320 $ 8,004 Other liabilities $ 15,981 $ - $ 13,435 $ - Total liabilities at fair value $ 15,981 $ - $ 13,435 $ - December 31, 2013 Investment securities available-for-sale: U.S. government agency securities $ 103,873 $ - $ 103,873 $ - Mortgage-backed securities 412,936 - 412,936 - State and municipal securities 148,411 - 148,411 - Asset- backed securities 17,007 17,007 - Corporate notes and other 11,229 - 11,229 - Total investment securities available-for-sale 693,456 - 693,456 - Other equity investments 6,701 - - 6,701 Other assets 19,900 - 19,900 - Total assets at fair value $ 720,057 $ - $ 713,356 $ 6,701 Other liabilities $ 13,670 $ - $ 13,670 $ - Total liabilities at fair value $ 13,670 $ - $ 13,670 $ - 110 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table presents assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 (in thousands): December 31, 2014 Total carrying value in the consolidated balance sheet Quoted market prices in an active market (Level 1) Instruments valued with significant observable market parameters (Level 2) Instruments valued with significant unobservable market parameters (Level 3) Total losses for the period ended Other real estate owned $ 11,186 $ - $ - $ 11,186 $ (509 ) Nonaccrual loans, net (1) 15,551 - - 15,551 (1,032 ) Total $ 26,737 $ - $ - $ 26,737 $ (1,541 ) December 31, 2013 Other real estate owned $ 15,226 $ - $ - $ 15,226 $ (2,258 ) Nonaccrual loans, net (1) 16,996 - - 16,996 (2,921 ) Total $ 32,222 $ - $ - $ 32,222 $ (5,179 ) (1) Amount is net of a valuation allowance of $1.2 million at both December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, as required by ASC 310-10, "Receivables." In the case of the bond portfolio, Pinnacle Financial monitors the valuation technique utilized by various pricing agencies to ascertain when transfers between levels have been affected. The nature of the assets and liabilities is such that transfers in and out of any level are expected to be rare. For the year ended December 31, 2014, there were no transfers between Levels 1, 2 or 3. The table below includes a rollforward of the balance sheet amounts for the year ended December 31, 2014 (including the change in fair value) for financial instruments classified by Pinnacle Financial within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. When a determination is made to classify a financial instrument within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy, the determination is based upon the significance of the unobservable factors to the overall fair value measurement. However, since Level 3 financial instruments typically include, in addition to the unobservable or Level 3 components, observable components (that is, components that are actively quoted and can be validated to external sources), the gains and losses in the table below include changes in fair value due in part to observable factors that are part of the valuation methodology (in thousands): For the year ended December 31, 2014 2013 Other assets Other liabilities Other assets Other liabilities Fair value, January 1 $ 6,701 $ - $ 4,681 $ - Total net realized gains (losses) included in income 670 - (344 ) - Change in unrealized gains/losses included in other comprehensive income for assets and liabilities still held at December 31 - - - - Purchases 633 - 2,517 - Issuances - - - - Settlements - - (153 ) - Transfers out of Level 3 - - - - Fair value, December 31 $ 8,004 $ - $ 6,701 $ - The amount of (gains) losses for the period included in earnings attributable to the change in unrealized (gains) losses relating to assets still held at the reporting date $ 670 $ - $ (344 ) $ - 111 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following methods and assumptions were used by Pinnacle Financial in estimating its fair value disclosures for financial instruments that are not measured at fair value. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using discounted cash flow models. Those models are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rates, estimates of future cash flows and borrower creditworthiness. The fair value estimates presented herein are based on pertinent information available to management as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Such amounts have not been revalued for purposes of these consolidated financial statements since those dates and, therefore, current estimates of fair value may differ significantly from the amounts presented herein. Held-to-maturity securities - Estimated fair values for investment securities are based on quoted market prices where available. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair values are estimated by using pricing models that use observable inputs or quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics. Loans - The fair value of Pinnacle Financial's loan portfolio includes a credit risk factor in the determination of the fair value of its loans. This credit risk assumption is intended to approximate the fair value that a market participant would realize in a hypothetical orderly transaction. Pinnacle Financial's loan portfolio is initially fair valued using a segmented approach. Pinnacle Financial divides its loan portfolio into the following categories: variable rate loans, impaired loans and all other loans. The results are then adjusted to account for credit risk. For variable-rate loans that reprice frequently and have no significant change in credit risk, fair values approximate carrying values. Fair values for impaired loans are estimated using discounted cash flow models or based on the fair value of the underlying collateral. For other loans, fair values are estimated using discounted cash flow models, using current market interest rates offered for loans with similar terms to borrowers of similar credit quality. The values derived from the discounted cash flow approach for each of the above portfolios are then further discounted to incorporate credit risk to determine the exit price. Mortgage loans held-for-sale - Mortgage loans held-for-sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value. The estimate of fair value is based on pricing models and other information. Deposits, Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances, Subordinated debt and other borrowings - The carrying amounts of demand deposits, savings deposits, securities sold under agreements to repurchase, floating rate advances from the FHLB and floating rate subordinated debt and other borrowings approximate their fair values. Fair values for certificates of deposit, fixed rate advances from the FHLB and fixed rate subordinated debt are estimated using discounted cash flow models, using current market interest rates offered on certificates, advances and other borrowings with similar remaining maturities. For fixed rate subordinated debt, the maturity is assumed to be as of the earliest date that the indebtedness will be repriced. Off-Balance Sheet Instruments - The fair values of Pinnacle Financial's off-balance-sheet financial instruments are based on fees charged to enter into similar agreements. However, commitments to extend credit do not represent a significant value to Pinnacle Financial until such commitments are funded. 112 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following table presents the carrying amounts, estimated fair value and placement in the fair value hierarchy of Pinnacle Financial's financial instruments at December 31, 2014 and 2013. This table excludes financial instruments for which the carrying amount approximates fair value. For short-term financial assets such as cash and cash equivalents, the carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value due to the relatively short time between the origination of the instrument and its expected realization. For financial liabilities such as non-interest bearing demand, interest-bearing demand, and savings deposits, the carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value due to these products having no stated maturity. December 31, 2014 Carrying/ Notional Amount Estimated Fair Value (1) Quoted market prices in an active market (Level 1) Models with significant observable market parameters (Level 2) Models with significant unobservable market parameters (Level 3) Financial assets: Securities held-to-maturity $ 38,676 $ 38,789 $ - $ 38,789 $ - Loans, net 4,522,668 4,406,581 - - 4,406,581 Mortgage loans held-for-sale 14,039 14,322 - 14,322 - Financial liabilities: Deposits and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 4,876,600 4,603,915 - - 4,603,915 Federal Home Loan Bank advances 195,476 195,450 - - 195,450 Subordinated debt and other borrowings 96,158 77,433 - - 77,433 Off-balance sheet instruments: Commitments to extend credit (2) 1,390,593 1,078 - - 1,078 Standby letters of credit (3) 65,955 293 - - 293 December 31, 2013 Financial assets: Securities held-to-maturity $ 39,796 $ 38,817 $ - $ 38,817 $ - Loans, net 4,076,524 4,021,675 - - 4,021,675 Mortgage loans held for sale 12,850 12,999 - 12,999 - Financial liabilities: Deposits and securities sold under agreements to repurchase 4,603,938 4,378,805 - - 4,378,805 Federal Home Loan Bank advances 90,637 90,652 - - 90,652 Subordinated debt and other borrowings 98,658 73,083 - - 73,083 Off-balance sheet instruments: Commitments to extend credit (2) 1,206,528 1,040 - - 1,040 Standby letters of credit (3) 69,231 331 - - 331 (1) Estimated fair values are consistent with an exit-price concept. The assumptions used to estimate the fair values are intended to approximate those that a market-participant would realize in a hypothetical orderly transaction. (2) At the end of each quarter, Pinnacle Financial evaluates the inherent risks of the outstanding off-balance sheet commitments. In making this evaluation, Pinnacle Financial evaluates the credit worthiness of the borrower, the collateral supporting the commitments and any other factors similar to those used to evaluate the inherent risks of our loan portfolio. Additionally, Pinnacle Financial evaluates the probability that the outstanding commitment will eventually become a funded loan. As a result, at December 31, 2014 and 2013, Pinnacle Financial included in other liabilities $1.1 million and $1.0 million, respectively, representing the inherent risks associated with these off-balance sheet commitments. (3) At December 31, 2014 and 2013, the fair value of Pinnacle Financial's standby letters of credit was $293,000 and $331,000, respectively. This amount represents the unamortized fee associated with these standby letters of credit, which were priced at market when issued, and is included in the consolidated balance sheet of Pinnacle Financial and is believed to approximate fair value. This fair value will decrease over time as the existing standby letters of credit approach their expiration dates. 113 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 19. Other Borrowings On June 15, 2012, Pinnacle Financial entered into a loan agreement with a bank for $25 million (the Loan Agreement). Borrowings under the Loan Agreement, combined with available cash, were used for the redemption, on June 20, 2012, of the remaining 71,250 shares of preferred stock owned by the Treasury that had been issued under the CPP. Pinnacle Financial's borrowings under the Loan Agreement bear interest at a LIBOR rate generally defined as the sum of (i) the average of the offered rates of interest quoted in the London Inter-Bank Eurodollar Market for U.S. Dollar deposits with prime banks (as published by Reuters or other commercially available sources) for three months (all as selected by the Company), and (ii) an applicable margin. The applicable margin under the Loan Agreement ranges from 2.25% (225 basis points) to 3.00% (300 basis points) depending on the total aggregate principal amount outstanding under the Loan Agreement. The initial applicable margin for both base rate and LIBOR rate loans is 3.00% (300 basis points). At December 31, 2014, the interest rate paid on borrowings under the Loan Agreement was 2.6875%. Pinnacle Financial is required to make quarterly principal payments of $625,000 and the loan matures on June 15, 2017. Pinnacle Financial is permitted to prepay all or a portion of the principal amount outstanding under the Loan Agreement without penalty (in minimum aggregate amounts of $100,000) at any time so long as no event of default or unmatured event of default has occurred and is continuing. The Loan Agreement includes negative covenants that limit, among other things, certain fundamental transactions, additional indebtedness, transactions with affiliates, liens, and sales of assets. The Loan Agreement specifically restricts transfers or encumbrances of the shares of the capital stock of Pinnacle Financial's bank subsidiary. The Loan Agreement also includes financial covenants related to Pinnacle Financial's, and in some cases, Pinnacle Bank's, capitalization, levels of risk-based capital, ratio of nonperforming assets to tangible primary capital and ratio of allowance for loan and lease losses to nonperforming loans. The Loan Agreement also includes a fixed charge coverage ratio requiring the sum of Pinnacle Financial's net income plus the amount of any goodwill amortization expense and contractually due interest divided by the sum of Pinnacle Financial's contractually due interest and principal amounts (assuming annual principal amortization of $2.5 million under the Loan Agreement), to be not less than 125% on a rolling four quarter basis starting December 31, 2012. The Loan Agreement also contains other customary affirmative and negative covenants, representations, warranties and events of default, which include but are not limited to, payment defaults, breaches of representations and warranties, covenant defaults, events of bankruptcy and insolvency, and the institution of certain regulatory enforcement actions against Pinnacle Financial or Pinnacle Bank. If an event of default occurs and is continuing, Pinnacle Financial may be required immediately to repay all amounts outstanding under the Loan Agreement. On October 2, 2013, the Loan Agreement was amended to permit Pinnacle Financial to pay dividends on its capital stock so long as no event of default was then existing or would be caused by the payment of such dividends. Debt issuance costs associated with the Loan Agreement of approximately $162,000 consisting primarily of professional fees are included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. These debt issuance costs are being amortized over three years using the straight-line method which approximates the interest method that is required by U.S. GAAP. 114 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 20. Variable Interest Entities Under ASC 810, Pinnacle Financial is deemed to be the primary beneficiary and required to consolidate a variable interest entity (VIE) if it has a variable interest in the VIE that provides it with a controlling financial interest. For such purposes, the determination of whether a controlling financial interest exists is based on whether a single party has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE's economic performance and the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be significant to the VIE. ASC 810 requires continual reconsideration of conclusions reached regarding which interest holder is a VIE's primary beneficiary and disclosures surrounding those VIE's which have not been consolidated. The consolidation methodology provided in this footnote as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 has been prepared in accordance with ASC 810. Non-consolidated Variable Interest Entities At December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Financial did not have any consolidated VIEs to disclose but did have the following non-consolidated VIEs: low income housing partnerships, trust preferred issuances, troubled debt restructuring commercial loans, and managed discretionary trusts. Pinnacle Financial has made equity investments as a limited partner in various partnerships that sponsor affordable housing projects. The purpose of these investments is to achieve a satisfactory return on capital and to support Pinnacle Financial's community reinvestment initiatives. The activities of the limited partnerships include the identification, development, and operation of multi-family housing that is leased to qualifying residential tenants generally within Pinnacle Financial's primary geographic region. These partnerships are considered VIEs because Pinnacle Financial, as the holder of the equity investment at risk, does not have the ability to direct the activities that most significantly affect the success of the entity through voting rights or similar rights. While Pinnacle Financial could absorb losses that are significant to these partnerships as it has a risk of loss for its initial capital contributions and funding commitments to each partnership, it is not considered the primary beneficiary of the partnerships as the general partners whose managerial functions give them the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the partnerships' economic performance and who are exposed to all losses beyond Pinnacle Financial's initial capital contributions and funding commitments are considered the primary beneficiaries. Pinnacle Financial has previously issued subordinated debt totaling $82.5 million to PNFP Statutory Trust I, II, III, and IV. These trusts are considered VIEs because Pinnacle Financial's capital contributions to these trusts are not considered "at risk" in evaluating whether the holders of the equity investments at risk in the trusts have the power through voting rights or similar rights to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entities' economic performance. These trusts were not consolidated by Pinnacle Financial because the holders of the securities issued by the trusts absorb a majority of expected losses and residual returns. For certain troubled commercial loans, Pinnacle Financial restructures the terms of the borrower's debt in an effort to increase the probability of receipt of amounts contractually due. However, Pinnacle Financial does not assume decision-making power or responsibility over the borrower's operations. Following a debt restructuring, the borrowing entity typically meets the definition of a VIE as the initial determination of whether the entity is a VIE must be reconsidered and economic events have proven that the entity's equity is not sufficient to permit it to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or a restructuring of the terms of its financing. As Pinnacle Financial does not have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact such troubled commercial borrowers' operations, it is not considered the primary beneficiary even in situations where, based on the size of the financing provided, Pinnacle Financial is exposed to potentially significant benefits and losses of the borrowing entity. Pinnacle Financial has no contractual requirements to provide financial support to the borrowing entities beyond certain funding commitments established upon restructuring of the terms of the debt to allow for completion of activities which prepare the collateral related to the debt for sale. 115 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Pinnacle Financial serves as manager over certain discretionary trusts, for which it makes investment decisions on behalf of the trusts' beneficiaries in return for a management fee. The trusts meet the definition of a VIE since the holders of the equity investments at risk do not have the power through voting rights or similar rights to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entities' economic performance. However, since the management fees Pinnacle Financial receives are not considered variable interests in the trusts as all of the requirements related to permitted levels of decision maker fees are met, such VIEs are not consolidated by Pinnacle Financial because it cannot be the trusts' primary beneficiary. Pinnacle Financial has no contractual requirements to provide financial support to the trusts. The following table summarizes VIE's that are not consolidated by Pinnacle Financial as of December 31, 2014 and December 31, 2013 (in thousands): December 31, 2014 December 31, 2013 Type Maximum Loss Exposure Liability Recognized Maximum Loss Exposure Liability Recognized Classification Low Income Housing Partnerships $ 10,769 $ - $ 7,945 $ - Other Assets Trust Preferred Issuances N/A 82,476 N/A 82,476 Subordinated Debt Commercial Troubled Debt Restructurings 3,773 - 15,273 - Loans Managed Discretionary Trusts N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Note 21. Regulatory Matters Pursuant to Tennessee banking law, Pinnacle Bank may not, without the prior consent of the Commissioner of the Tennessee Department of Financial Institutions (TDFI), pay any dividends to Pinnacle Financial in a calendar year in excess of the total of Pinnacle Bank's retained net income for that year plus the retained net income for the preceding two years. During the year ended December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Bank paid $ 21.2 million in dividends to Pinnacle Financial. As of December 31, 2014, Pinnacle Bank could pay approximately $116.5 million of dividends to Pinnacle Financial without prior approval of the Commissioner of the TDFI. Pinnacle Financial initiated payment of a quarterly dividend of $ 0.08 per share of common stock in the fourth quarter of 2013 and has since declared five subsequent dividend payments including a $0.12 dividend declared in the first quarter of 2015. The amount and timing of all future dividend payments, if any, is subject to the discretion of Pinnacle Financial's board of directors and will depend on Pinnacle Financial's earnings, capital position, financial condition and other factors, including new regulatory capital requirements, as they become known to us. Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional discretionary actions, by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance-sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. 116 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios of Total and Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets and for Pinnacle Bank of Tier I capital to average assets. Management believes, as of December 31, 2014, that Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank met all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject. To be categorized as well-capitalized under applicable banking regulations, Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank was required to maintain minimum Total risk-based, Tier I risk-based, and Tier I leverage ratios in effect prior to January 1, 2015 as set forth in the following table and not be subject to a written agreement, order or directive to maintain a higher capital level. Pinnacle Financial's and Pinnacle Bank's actual capital amounts and ratios are presented in the following table (in thousands): Actual Minimum Capital Requirement Minimum To Be Well-Capitalized Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio At December 31, 2014 Total capital to risk weighted assets: Pinnacle Financial $ 698,810 13.4 % $ 418,748 8.0 % $ 523,760 10.0 % Pinnacle Bank $ 657,576 12.6 % $ 417,511 8.0 % $ 522,234 10.0 % Tier I capital to risk weighted assets: Pinnacle Financial $ 633,348 12.1 % $ 209,374 4.0 % $ 314,256 6.0 % Pinnacle Bank $ 592,298 11.4 % $ 208,756 4.0 % $ 313,340 6.0 % Tier I capital to average assets (*): Pinnacle Financial $ 633,348 11.3 % $ 224,406 4.0 % N/A N/A Pinnacle Bank $ 592,298 10.6 % $ 223,656 4.0 % $ 279,570 5.0 % At December 31, 2013 Total capital to risk weighted assets: Pinnacle Financial $ 621,683 13.0 % $ 382,190 8.0 % $ 478,688 10.0 % Pinnacle Bank $ 599,028 12.6 % $ 381,439 8.0 % $ 477,761 10.0 % Tier I capital to risk weighted assets: Pinnacle Financial $ 561,847 11.8 % $ 191,095 4.0 % $ 287,213 6.0 % Pinnacle Bank $ 539,309 11.3 % $ 190,720 4.0 % $ 286,657 6.0 % Tier I capital to average assets (*): Pinnacle Financial $ 561,847 10.9 % $ 205,695 4.0 % N/A N/A Pinnacle Bank $ 539,309 10.5 % $ 204,977 4.0 % $ 256,221 5.0 % (*) Average assets for the above calculations were based on the most recent quarter. In July 2013, the Federal Reserve Board and the FDIC approved final rules that substantially amend the regulatory risk-based capital rules applicable to Pinnacle Bank and Pinnacle Financial. The final rules implement the regulatory capital reforms of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision reflected in "Basel III: A Global Regulatory Framework for More Resilient Banks and Banking Systems" (Basel III) and changes required by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under these rules which became effective on January 1, 2015, the leverage and risk-based capital ratios of bank holding companies may not be lower than the leverage and risk-based capital ratios for insured depository institutions. The final rules also include new minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios. Moreover, these rules refine the definition of what constitutes "capital" for purposes of calculating those ratios, including the definitions of Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. 117 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The new minimum capital level requirements applicable to bank holding companies and banks subject to the rules are: (i) a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% (increased from 4%); (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% (unchanged from current rules); and (iv) a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4% for all institutions. To be considered well-capitalized under applicable banking regulations following January 1, 2015, Pinnacle Financial and Pinnacle Bank must maintain the following minimum capital ratios and not be subject to a written agreement, order or directive to maintain a higher capital level: (i) a common equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 6.5%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8%; (iii) a Total risk-based capital ratio of 10%; and (iv) in the case of Pinnacle Bank, a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 5%. The rules also establish a "capital conservation buffer" of 2.5% (to be phased in over three years) above the new regulatory minimum risk-based capital ratios, and result in the following minimum ratios once the capital conservation buffer is fully phased in: (i) a common equity Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 7.0%, (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 8.5%, and (iii) a total risk-based capital ratio of 10.5%. The capital conservation buffer requirement is to be phased in beginning in January 2016 at 0.625% of risk-weighted assets and will increase each year until fully implemented in January 2019. An institution will be subject to limitations on paying dividends, engaging in share repurchases and paying discretionary bonuses if capital levels fall below minimum levels plus the buffer amounts. These limitations establish a maximum percentage of eligible retained income that could be utilized for such actions. Under these new rules, Tier 1 capital will generally consist of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings, limited amounts of minority interest in the form of additional Tier 1 capital instruments, and non-cumulative preferred stock and related surplus, subject to certain eligibility standards, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions. Cumulative preferred stock and trust preferred securities issued after May 19, 2010, will no longer qualify as Tier 1 capital, but such securities issued prior to May 19, 2010, including in the case of bank holding companies with less than $15.0 billion in total assets, trust preferred securities issued prior to that date, will continue to count as Tier 1 capital subject to certain limitations. As a result, Pinnacle Financial's Trust Preferred Securities will continue to qualify as Tier 1 capital. The definition of Tier 2 capital is generally unchanged for most banking organizations, subject to certain new eligibility criteria. Common equity Tier 1 capital will generally consist of common stock (plus related surplus) and retained earnings plus limited amounts of minority interest in the form of common stock, less goodwill and other specified intangible assets and other regulatory deductions. The final rules allow banks and their holding companies with less than $250 billion in assets a one-time opportunity to opt-out of a requirement to include unrealized gains and losses in accumulated other comprehensive income in their capital calculation. Pinnacle Financial expects that it will opt-out of this requirement. 118 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 22. Parent Company Only Financial Information The following information presents the condensed balance sheets, statements of operations, and cash flows of Pinnacle Financial as of December 31, 2014 and 2013 and for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014: CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS 2014 2013 Assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 36,496,871 $ 21,095,990 Investments in consolidated subsidiaries 850,583,226 788,522,316 Investment in unconsolidated subsidiaries: PNFP Statutory Trust I 310,000 310,000 PNFP Statutory Trust II 619,000 619,000 PNFP Statutory Trust III 619,000 619,000 PNFP Statutory Trust IV 928,000 928,000 Other investments 5,253,681 4,146,126 Current income tax receivable (181,129 ) 553,401 Other assets 4,492,924 5,638,884 $ 899,121,573 $ 822,432,717 Liabilities and stockholders' equity: Subordinated debt and other borrowings 96,158,292 98,658,292 Other liabilities 269,900 66,764 Stockholders' equity 802,693,381 723,707,661 $ 899,121,573 $ 822,432,717 CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 2014 2013 2012 Revenues $ 906,935 $ 266,472 $ 157,443 Expenses: Interest expense 2,488,046 2,729,843 2,689,197 Stock-based compensation expense 5,308,167 4,082,132 3,664,494 Other expense 768,089 770,252 778,947 Loss before income taxes and equity in undistributed income (loss) of subsidiaries (7,657,367 ) (7,315,755 ) (6,975,195 ) Income tax benefit (3,065,606 ) (2,869,605 ) (2,736,020 ) (Loss) income before equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries and accretion on preferred stock discount (4,591,761 ) (4,446,150 ) (4,239,175 ) Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries 75,062,928 62,172,351 46,123,056 Net income 70,471,167 57,726,201 41,883,881 Preferred stock dividends - - 1,660,868 Accretion on preferred stock discount - - 2,153,172 Net income available to common stockholders $ 70,471,167 $ 57,726,201 $ 38,069,841 119 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 2014 2013 2012 Operating activities : Net income $ 70,471,167 $ 57,726,201 $ 41,883,881 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities: Stock-based compensation expense 5,308,166 4,082,132 3,664,494 Loss (gain) on other investments (710,015 ) 22,484 138,020 Increase (decrease) in income tax payable, net - 80,532 169,016 Decrease (increase) in other assets 1,853,608 1,608,121 (912,116 ) Increase (decrease) in other liabilities 203,141 9,286 (8,176 ) Excess tax benefit from stock compensation (1,698,521 ) (389,415 ) (36,071 ) Deferred tax expense 26,878 (453,661 ) (75,427 ) Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries (75,062,928 ) (62,172,351 ) (46,123,056 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities 391,497 513,329 (1,299,435 ) Investing activities : Investment in consolidated subsidiaries: Banking subsidiaries 21,185,000 14,910,000 27,210,000 Other subsidiaries - - - Investments in other entities (397,540 ) (954,249 ) 47,804 Net cash provided by investing activities 20,787,460 13,955,751 27,257,804 Financing activities : Net (decrease) increase in subordinated debt and other borrowings (2,500,000 ) (7,500,000 ) 23,682,291 Repurchase of common stock warrants - - (755,000 ) Exercise of common stock options 6,421,689 2,894,908 1,616,643 Preferred dividends paid - - (2,127,604 ) Common dividends paid (11,398,285 ) (2,814,691 ) - Excess tax benefit from stock compensation arrangements 1,698,521 389,415 36,071 Repurchase of preferred shares outstanding - - (71,250,000 ) Net cash used in financing activities (5,778,076 ) (7,030,368 ) (48,797,599 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash 15,400,881 7,438,712 (22,839,230 ) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 21,095,990 13,657,278 36,496,508 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year $ 36,496,871 $ 21,095,990 $ 13,657,278 Pinnacle Bank is subject to restrictions on the payment of dividends to Pinnacle Financial under Tennessee banking laws. Pinnacle Bank paid dividends of $21.2 million, $14.9 million and $27.2 million, respectively to Pinnacle Financial in each of the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012. 120 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Note 23. Quarterly Financial Results (unaudited) A summary of selected consolidated quarterly financial data for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014 follows: (in thousands, except per share data) First Quarter Second Quarter Third Quarter Fourth Quarter 2014 Interest income $ 49,291 $ 50,564 $ 52,782 $ 53,533 Net interest income 45,908 47,226 49,537 50,313 Provision for loan losses 488 254 851 2,041 Net income before taxes 24,506 25,668 27,215 28,264 Net income 16,367 17,170 18,197 18,737 Net income available to common stockholders 16,367 17,170 18,197 18,737 Basic net income per share available to common stockholders $ 0.47 $ 0.49 $ 0.52 $ 0.54 Diluted net income per share available to common stockholders $ 0.47 $ 0.49 $ 0.52 $ 0.53 2013 Interest income $ 47,156 $ 47,544 $ 48,177 $ 48,405 Net interest income 42,758 43,599 44,573 44,969 Provision for loan losses 2,172 2,774 685 2,225 Net income before taxes 20,048 21,289 21,952 22,597 Net income 13,448 14,311 14,647 15,321 Net income available to common stockholders 13,448 14,311 14,647 15,321 Basic net income per share available to common stockholders $ 0.40 $ 0.42 $ 0.43 $ 0.45 Diluted net income per share available to common stockholders $ 0.39 $ 0.42 $ 0.42 $ 0.44 2012 Interest income $ 45,824 $ 45,953 $ 46,441 $ 47,203 Net interest income 39,504 40,185 40,932 42,243 Provision for loan losses 1,034 634 1,413 2,488 Net income before taxes 12,599 15,545 16,371 18,012 Net income 8,365 10,440 11,349 11,730 Net income available to common stockholders 7,206 7,785 11,349 11,730 Basic net income per share available to common stockholders $ 0.21 $ 0.23 $ 0.33 $ 0.35 Diluted net income per share available to common stockholders $ 0.21 $ 0.23 $ 0.33 $ 0.34 121 °Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. °Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures Pinnacle Financial maintains disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act"), that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by it in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to Pinnacle Financial's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Pinnacle Financial carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of its management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on the evaluation of these disclosure controls and procedures, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Pinnacle Financial's disclosure controls and procedures were effective. Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The report of Pinnacle Financial's management on Pinnacle Financial's internal control over financial reporting is set forth on page 70 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The attestation report of Pinnacle Financial's independent registered public accounting firm on Pinnacle Financial's internal control over financial reporting is set forth on page 72 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in Internal Controls There were no changes in Pinnacle Financial's internal control over financial reporting during Pinnacle Financial's fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2014 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Pinnacle Financial's internal control over financial reporting. °Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION None. 122 PART III °Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The responses to this Item will be included in Pinnacle Financial's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 21, 2015 under the headings "Corporate Governance-Code of Conduct," "Proposal #1 Election of Directors-Audit Committee," "Proposal #1 Election of Directors," "Executive Management," and "Section 16A Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" and are incorporated herein by reference. °Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION The responses to this Item will be included in Pinnacle Financial's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 21, 2015 under the heading, "Proposal #1 Election of the Directors-Director Compensation," "Executive Compensation" and "Human Resources and Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and are incorporated herein by reference. °Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS The responses to this Item regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners management and will be included in Pinnacle Financial's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 21, 2015 under the heading, "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management," and are incorporated herein by reference. The following table summarizes information concerning Pinnacle's equity compensation plans at December 31, 2014: Plan Category Number of Securities to be Issued upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights Weighted Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights Number of Securities Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans (Excluding Securities Reflected in First Column) Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders: 2004 Equity Incentive Plan 660,861 $ 27.53 - Bank of the South 2001 Stock Option Plan 4,750 19.19 - PrimeTrust Bank 2005 Statutory-Non-Statutory Stock Option Plan 7,119 12.89 - Mid-America Bancshares, Inc. 2006 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan 25,783 17.20 - 2014 Equity Incentive Plan - - 1,327,894 Equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders N/A N/A N/A Total 698,513 $ 26.94 1,327,894 °Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS, RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE The responses to this Item will be included in Pinnacle Financial's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 21, 2015 under the headings, "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions," and "Corporate Governance-Director Independence" and are incorporated herein by reference. °Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES The responses to this Item will be included in Pinnacle Financial's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 21, 2015 under the heading, "Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" and are incorporated herein by reference. 123 °Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (a) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description 2.1 Merger Agreement, dated September 30, 2005, by and between Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and Cavalry Bancorp, Inc. (schedules and exhibits to which have been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K) (1) 2.2 Agreement and Plan of Merger by and between Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and Mid-America Bancshares, Inc. (schedules and exhibits to which been omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(2) of Regulation S-K) (2) 3.1 Amended and Restated Charter, as amended (Restated for SEC filing purposes only) (3) 3.2 Bylaws (4) 4.1.1 Specimen Common Stock Certificate (5) 4.1.2 See Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2 for provisions of the Charter and Bylaws defining rights of holders of the Common Stock 10.1 Letter Agreement dated March 14, 2000 and accepted March 16, 2000 by and between Pinnacle Financial Corporation (now known as Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc.) and Atkinson Public Relations (5) 10.2 Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (5) * 10.3 Form of Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc.'s Stock Option Award (5) * 10.4 Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement (6) 10.5 Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (7) * 10.6 Cavalry Bancorp, Inc. 1999 Stock Option Plan (8) * 10.7 Amendment No. 1 to Cavalry Bancorp, Inc. 1999 Stock Option Plan (8) * 10.8 Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (8) * 10.9 Amendment No. 1 to Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. 2000 Stock Incentive Plan (8) * 10.10 Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (9) * 10.11 Amended Employment Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and M. Terry Turner (10) * 10.12 Amended Employment Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and Robert A. McCabe, Jr. (10) * 10.13 Amended Employment Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and Hugh M. Queener (10) * 10.14 Amended Employment Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and Harold R. Carpenter (10) * 10.15 Bank of the South 2001 Stock Option Plan (10) 10.16 PrimeTrust Bank 2001 Statutory Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan (10) * 10.17 PrimeTrust Bank 2005 Statutory Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan (10) * 10.18 Form of 2011 TARP CPP Executive Officer Performance Vested Restricted Stock Agreement (11)* 10.19 Form of 2011 TARP CPP Executive Officer Time Vested Restricted Stock Agreement (11)* 10.20 Form of Named Executive Officers 2012 Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (12)* 10.21 Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. Amended and Restated 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (13) 10.22 Loan Agreement, dated as of June 15, 2012, by and between Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc., as Borrower, and US Bank, National Association, as Lender (14) 10.23 Change of Control Agreement dated as of September 4, 2012 by and among Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc., Pinnacle Bank and Joseph Harvey White (15) 10.24 Form of Named Executive Officers 2013 Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (16) 10.25 Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. 2013 Annual Cash Incentive Plan (16) 10.26 Amendment No. 1 dated November 20, 2012 to Amended Employment Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and M. Terry Turner (17)* 10.27 Amendment No. 1 dated November 20, 2012 to Amended Employment Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and Robert A. McCabe (17)* 10.28 Amendment No. 1 dated November 20, 2012 to Amended Employment Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and Hugh M. Queener (17)* 10.29 Amendment No. 1 dated November 20, 2012 to Amended Employment Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and Harold R. Carpenter (17)* 10.30 Amendment No. 1 dated November 20, 2012 to Amended Change of Control Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and J. Harvey White (17)* 10.31 First Amendment to Loan Agreement between U.S. Bank National Association and Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc., dated October 2, 2013 (18) 124 10.32 Form of Named Executive Officers 2014 Performance Unit Award Agreement (19) 10.33 Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. 2014 Annual Cash Incentive Plan (19) 10.34 Amendment No. 2 dated February 4, 2014 to Amended Employment Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and M. Terry Turner (20) * 10.35 Amendment No. 2 dated February 4, 2014 to Amended Employment Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and Robert A. McCabe (20) * 10.36 Amendment No. 2 dated February 4, 2014 to Amended Employment Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and Hugh M. Queener (20) * 10.37 Amendment No. 2 dated February 4, 2014 to Amended Employment Agreement by and among Pinnacle Bank, Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. and Harold R. Carpenter (20) * 10.38 Amendment No. 1 to Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. 2004 Amended and Restated Equity Incentive Plan (20) * 10.39 Second Amended and Restated Mid-America Bancshares, Inc. 2006 Omnibus Equity Incentive Plan (20) * 10.40 Form of Directors' 2014 Restricted Stock Agreement (20) * 10.41 Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. 2014 Equity Incentive Plan (21) 10.42 Form of Named Executive Officers 2015 Performance Unit Award Agreement (22)* 10.43 Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. 2015 Annual Cash Incentive Plan (22)* 10.44 Loan Agreement dated as of February 4, 2015, by and between Pinnacle Bank, as Borrower and US Bank, National Association, as Lender (23)* 21.1 Subsidiaries of Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. 23.1 Consent of KPMG LLP 31.1 Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 31.2 Certification pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 32.1 Certification pursuant to 18 USC Section 1350 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.2 Certification pursuant to 18 USC Section 1350 Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Schema Documents 101.CAL XBRL Calculation Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Presentation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Definition Linkbase Document (*) Management compensatory plan or arrangement 125 (1) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 3, 2005. (2) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 15, 2007. (3) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, as filed with the SEC. (4) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 26, 2009. (5) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form SB-2, as amended (File No. 333-38018). (6) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. (7) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005 as filed with the SEC on February 24, 2006. (8) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. (9) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report of Form 8-K filed on January 25, 2008. (10) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007 as filed with the SEC on March 7, 2008. (11) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 19, 2011. (12) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 20, 2012. (13) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 20, 2012. (14) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 20, 2012. (15) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 6, 2012. (16) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 17, 2013. (17) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrants's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 as filed with the SEC on February 22, 2013. (18) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended on September 30, 2013 as filed with the SEC on November 1, 2013. (19) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 24, 2014. (20) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 as filed with the SEC on February 25, 2014. (21) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 17, 2014. (22) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 27, 2015. (23) Registrant hereby incorporates by reference to Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 5, 2015 Pinnacle Financial is a party to certain agreements entered into in connection with the offering by PNFP Statutory Trust I, PNFP Statutory Trust II, PNFP Statutory Trust III, and PNFP Statutory Trust IV of an aggregate of $80,000,000 in trust preferred securities, as more fully described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. In accordance with Item 601(b)(4)(ii) of Regulation SB, and because the total amount of the trust preferred securities is not in excess of 10% of Pinnacle Financial's total assets, Pinnacle Financial has not filed the various documents and agreements associated with the trust preferred securities herewith. Pinnacle Financial has, however, agreed to furnish copies of the various documents and agreements associated with the trust preferred securities to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request. 126 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC By: /s/ M. Terry Turner M. Terry Turner Date: February 25, 2015 President and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. SIGNATURES TITLE DATE /s/ Robert A. McCabe, Jr. Chairman of the Board February 25, 2015 Robert A. McCabe, Jr. /s/ M. Terry Turner Director, President and Chief Executive Officer February 25, 2015 M. Terry Turner (Principal Executive Officer) /s/ Harold R. Carpenter Chief Financial Officer February 25, 2015 Harold R. Carpenter (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) /s/ Sue R. Atkinson Director February 25, 2015 Sue R. Atkinson Director H. Gordon Bone /s/ Gregory L. Burns Director February 25, 2015 Gregory L. Burns /s/ James C. Cope Director February 25, 2015 James C. Cope Director Colleen Conway-Welch /s/ Glenda Baskin Glover Director February 25, 2015 Glenda Baskin Glover /s/ William H. Huddleston Director February 25, 2015 William H. Huddleston /s/ Ed C. Loughry, Jr. Director February 25, 2015 Ed C. Loughry, Jr. /s/ Hal N. Pennington Director February 25, 2015 Hal N. Pennington /s/ Gary Scott Director February 25, 2015 Gary Scott /s/ Reese L. Smith III Director February 25, 2015 Reese L. Smith III 127 Exhibit 10.32 PINNACLE FINANCIAL PARTNERS, INC. Named Executive Officer Compensation Summary The following table sets forth the current base salaries paid to the Chief Executive Officer and the four other named executive officers of Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. (the "Company"). Executive Officer Current Base Salary M. Terry Turner CEO $ 808,000 Robert A. McCabe, Jr. - Chairman of the Board $ 767,000 Hugh M. Queener CAO $ 388,000 Harold R. Carpenter CFO $ 388,000 Joseph Harvey White - Chief Credit Officer $ 292,000 In addition to their cash base salaries, these executive officers are also eligible to: Receive cash bonuses under the Company's 2015 Cash Incentive Plan; Participate in the Company's equity incentive programs, which currently involves the award of performance-based restricted stock units pursuant to the Company's 2014 Equity Incentive Plan; and Participate in the Company's broad-based benefit programs generally available to its employees, including health, disability and life insurance programs and the Company's 401k plan. The foregoing information is summary in nature. Additional information regarding the named executive officer compensation will be provided in the Company's proxy statement to be filed in connection with the 2015 annual meeting of the Company's stockholders. Exhibit 21.1 List of Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Jurisdiction or State of Incorporation Names Under Which Subsidiary Does Business (1) Pinnacle Bank (2) Tennessee PFP Title Company (3) Tennessee Pinnacle Community Development Corporation (3) Tennessee PNFP Statutory Trust I (4) Connecticut PNFP Statutory Trust II (4) Delaware PNFP Statutory Trust III (4) Connecticut PNFP Statutory Trust IV (4) Delaware PNFP Holdings, Inc. (5) Nevada PNFP Properties, Inc. (6) Maryland Pinnacle Advisory Services, Inc. (7) Tennessee Pinnacle Credit Enhancement Holdings, Inc. (7) Tennessee Pinnacle Rutherford Real Estate, Inc. (3) Tennessee Pinnacle Nashville Real Estate, Inc. (3) Tennessee Pinnacle Rutherford Towers, Inc.(3) Tennessee Pinnacle Service Company, Inc.(3) Tennessee PNFP Insurance, Inc.(7) Nevada Miller Loughry, Inc. (2) Tennessee Miller Loughry Beach PNB Holding Co. 1, Inc. (3) Tennessee PNB Holding Co. 2, Inc. (3) Tennessee PNFP Capital Markets, Inc. Tennessee 1. Unless otherwise noted, each Subsidiary only does business under its legal name as set forth under the heading "Subsidiaries." 2. Pinnacle Bank is organized under the laws of the State of Tennessee. 3. PFP Title Company, Pinnacle Community Development Corporation, Pinnacle Rutherford Real Estate, Inc., Pinnacle Nashville Real Estate, Inc., Pinnacle Rutherford Towers, Inc., Pinnacle Service Company, Inc., Miller Loughry, Inc., PNB Holding Co. 1, Inc. and PNB Holding Co. 2, Inc. are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Pinnacle Bank. 4. PNFP Statutory Trust I, PNFP Statutory Trust II, PNFP Statutory Trust III and Statutory Trust IV are statutory business trusts which were established to issue capital trust preferred securities. 5. PNFP Holdings, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PFP Title Company. 6. PNFP Properties, Inc. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PNFP Holdings, Inc. 7. Pinnacle Advisory Services, Inc., Pinnacle Credit Enhancement Holdings, Inc. and PNFP Insurance, Inc. are wholly owned subsidiaries of Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. 8. PNFP Capital Markets, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Pinnacle Bank. Exhibit 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc.: We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements Nos. 333-49564, 333-68756, 333-114799, 333-124199, 333-132816, 333-135411, 333-147804, 333-148251, 333-158825, 333-180865, and 333-195712 on Form S-8 and No. 185566 on Form S-3 of Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. (the Company) of our reports dated February 25, 2015, with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income (loss), stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, which reports appear in the December 31, 2014 annual report on Form 10 K of the Company. (signed) KPMG LLP Nashville, Tennessee February 25, 2015 Exhibit 31.1 CERTIFICATIONS I, M. Terry Turner, certify that: 1.) I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc.; 2.) Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 3.) Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 4.) The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)) and 15d-15(f) for the registrant and have: (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 5.) The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. Date: February 25, 2015 Signature: /s/ M. Terry Turner M. Terry Turner President and Chief Executive Officer Exhibit 31.2 CERTIFICATIONS I, Harold R. Carpenter, certify that: 1.) I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc.; 2.) Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 3.) Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 4.) The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)) and 15d-15(f) for the registrant and have: (a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; (b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; (c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and (d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 5.) The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): (a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and (b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. Date: February 25, 2015 Signature: /s/ Harold R. Carpenter Harold R. Carpenter Chief Financial Officer Exhibit 32.1 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 In connection with the Annual Report of Pinnacle Financial Partners (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2014, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, M. Terry Turner, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934; and 2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Date: February 25, 2015 By: /s/ M. Terry Turner M. Terry Turner President and Chief Executive Officer Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. Exhibit 32.2 CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 In connection with the Annual Report of Pinnacle Financial Partners (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2014, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Harold R. Carpenter, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350, as adopted pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934; and 2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Date: February 25, 2015 By: /s/ Harold R. Carpenter Harold R. Carpenter Chief Financial Officer Pinnacle Financial Partners, Inc. 
