 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2012 OR TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Commission File Number 000-32017 CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. (Name of registrant as specified in its charter) Florida 59-3606741 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 42745 U.S. Highway 27, Davenport, Florida 33837 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Issuer s telephone number, including area code: (863) 419-7750 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None The registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES NO The registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. YES NO Check whether the registrant has (1) filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the past 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES NO Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). YES NO Check if there is no disclosure of delinquent filers in response to Item 405 of Regulation SK contained in this form, and no disclosure will be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer and smaller reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company The registrant is a shell company, as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. YES NO The aggregate market value of the Common Stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant (22,879,920 shares) on June 30, 2012, was approximately $163,591,000. The aggregate market value was computed by reference to the last sale of the Common Stock of the registrant at $7.15 per share on June 30, 2012. For the purposes of this response, directors, executive officers and holders of 5% or more of the registrant s Common Stock are considered the affiliates of the issuer at that date. As of March 1, 2013 there were outstanding 30,095,520 shares of the registrant s Common Stock. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 25, 2013 to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days of the registrant s fiscal year end are incorporated by reference into Part III, of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements TABLE OF CONTENTS Page PART I 1 °Item 1. Business 1 General 1 Note about Forward-Looking Statements 2 Lending Activities 3 Deposit Activities 4 Investments 4 Correspondent Banking 5 Data Processing 5 Effect of Governmental Policies 5 Interest and Usury 6 Supervision and Regulation 6 Competition 13 Employees 13 Statistical Profile and Other Financial Data 13 Availability of Reports furnished or filed with SEC 13 °Item 1A Risk Factors 13 °Item 1B Unresolved Staff Comments 22 °Item 2. Properties 22 °Item 3. Legal Proceedings 22 °Item 4. [Removed and Reserved] 22 PART II 23 °Item 5. Market for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 23 °Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data 25 °Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 31 °Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks 70 °Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 71 °Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 71 °Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 71 °Item 9B. Other Information 71 PART III 72 °Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 72 °Item 11. Executive Compensation 72 °Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 72 °Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 72 °Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 72 °Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 72 SIGNATURES 136 EXHIBIT INDEX 137 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PART I °Item 1. Business General CenterState Banks, Inc. ( We, CenterState, CSFL, or the Company ) was incorporated under the laws of the State of Florida on September 20, 1999. CenterState is a registered bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the BHC Act ), and owns all the outstanding shares of CenterState Bank of Florida, N.A. ( CSB or the Bank ), and R4ALL, Inc. ( R4ALL ) a non bank subsidiary. The Company was formed and commenced operations by acquiring CenterState Bank Central Florida, N.A. ( Central ), CenterState Bank, N.A. ( CSNA ) and First National Bank of Polk County ( FNB/Polk ) in June of 2000. Central and CSNA commenced operations in 1989. FNB/Polk commenced operations in 1992. CSB commenced operations in April of 2000 and was acquired by the Company on December 31, 2002. In January 2006, FNB/Polk was merged with CSB. The Company purchased CenterState Bank Mid Florida in March of 2006 and merged it with CSNA in November of 2007. In April of 2007 we purchased VSB. In December 2010 Central and CSNA were merged into CSB. In June 2012 VSB was merged into CSB. In September 2009 we formed a separate non bank subsidiary, R4ALL, for the purpose of acquisition and disposition of troubled assets from our subsidiary bank(s). Through our subsidiary bank, CSB, we acquired assets and deposits from four failed financial institutions from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) in 2009 and 2010, and a fifth and sixth in January of 2012. In January 2011, we acquired four branch banking offices with approximately $113 million of deposits and approximately $121 million of performing loans from TD Bank, N.A. In November 2011, we acquired Federal Trust Corporation in Sanford, Florida, with approximately $157 million of selected performing loans, $198 million of deposits and five branch banking offices from The Hartford Insurance Group, Inc., the sole owner of Federal Trust Corporation. Headquartered in Davenport, Florida between Orlando and Tampa, we provide a range of consumer and commercial banking services to individuals, businesses and industries through our 55 bank branch network located within 18 counties throughout central and Northeast Florida. As of December 31, 2012 our 55 bank branch offices were located in the following Florida counties: Citrus Indian River Orange Polk Hendry Lake Osceola Putnam Hernando Marion Pasco Sumter Hillsborough Okeechobee Seminole St. Lucie Volusia Duval The basic services we offer include: demand interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing accounts, money market deposit accounts, time deposits, safe deposit services, cash management, direct deposits, notary services, money orders, night depository, travelers checks, cashier s checks, domestic collections, savings bonds, bank drafts, automated teller services, drive-in tellers, and banking by mail and by internet. In addition, we make residential and commercial real estate loans, secured and unsecured commercial loans and consumer loans. We provide automated teller machine (ATM) cards, thereby permitting customers to utilize the convenience of larger ATM networks. We 1 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements also offer internet banking services to our customers. Effective with our acquisition of a trust department pursuant to our January 2012 acquisition of a failed financial institution in Duval county, we now offer trust services to customers throughout our existing markets in Florida. We also have a wealth management division that offers other financial products to our customers, including mutual funds, annuities and other products. Our revenue is primarily derived from interest on, and fees received in connection with, real estate and other loans, interest and dividends from investment securities and short-term investments, and commissions on bond sales. The principal sources of funds for our lending activities are customer deposits, repayment of loans, and the sale and maturity of investment securities. Our principal expenses are interest paid on deposits, and operating and general administrative expenses. In addition to providing traditional deposit and lending products and services to our commercial and retail customers through our 55 locations, we also operate a correspondent banking and bond sales division. The division is integrated with and part of our subsidiary bank, CSB, located in Winter Haven, Florida, although the majority of our bond salesmen, traders and operations personnel are physically housed in leased facilities located in Birmingham, Alabama and Atlanta, Georgia. The business lines of this division are primarily divided into three inter-related revenue generating activities. The first, and largest, revenue generator is commissions earned on fixed income security sales. The second category includes: (a) correspondent bank deposits (i.e., federal funds purchased) and (b) correspondent bank checking accounts and clearing services. The third, and smallest revenue generating category, includes fees from safe-keeping activities, bond accounting services for correspondents, and asset/liability consulting related activities. The customer base includes small to medium size financial institutions primarily located in Florida, Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia. As is the case with banking institutions generally, our operations are materially and significantly influenced by the real estate market, general economic conditions and by related monetary and fiscal policies of financial institution regulatory agencies, including the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the Federal Reserve ). Deposit flows and costs of funds are influenced by interest rates on competing investments and general market rates of interest. Lending activities are affected by the demand for financing of real estate and other types of loans, which in turn is affected by the interest rates at which such financing may be offered and other factors affecting local demand and availability of funds. We face strong competition in the attraction of deposits (our primary source of lendable funds) and in the origination of loans. See Competition. At December 31, 2012, our primary asset is our ownership of 100% of the stock of our subsidiary bank. At December 31, 2012, we had total consolidated assets of $2,363,240,000, total consolidated loans of $1,435,863,000, total consolidated deposits of $1,997,232,000, and total consolidated stockholders equity of $273,531,000. Note about Forward-Looking Statements This Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements, such as statements relating to our financial condition, results of operations, plans, objectives, future performance and business operations. These statements relate to expectations concerning matters that are not historical facts. These forward-looking statements reflect our current views and expectations based largely upon the information currently available to us and are subject to inherent risks and uncertainties. Although we believe our expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, they are not guarantees of future performance and there are a number of important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. By making these forward-looking statements, we do not undertake to update them in any manner except as may be required by our disclosure obligations in filings we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Federal securities laws. Our actual results may differ materially from our forward-looking statements. 2 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Lending Activities We offer a range of lending services, including real estate, consumer and commercial loans, to individuals and small businesses and other organizations that are located in or conduct a substantial portion of their business in our market area. Our consolidated loans at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were $1,435,863,000, or 61% and $1,283,766,000 or 56%, respectively, of total consolidated assets. The interest rates charged on loans vary with the degree of risk, maturity, and amount of the loan, and are further subject to competitive pressures, money market rates, availability of funds, and government regulations. We have no foreign loans or loans for highly leveraged transactions. We do have immaterial amounts of loans with foreigners on property located within our Florida market area, primarily vacation and second homes. Our loans are concentrated in three major areas: real estate loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. A majority of our loans are made on a secured basis. As of December 31, 2012, approximately 87% of our consolidated loan portfolio consisted of loans secured by mortgages on real estate, 9% of the loan portfolio consisted of commercial loans (not secured by real estate) and 4% of our loan portfolio consisted of consumer and other loans. Approximately 20.6% of our loans, or $296,295,000, is covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements related to the acquisition of three failed financial institutions during the third quarter of 2010 and two during the first quarter of 2012. Pursuant to the terms of the loss sharing agreements, the FDIC is obligated to reimburse the Company for 80% of losses with respect to the covered loans beginning with the first dollar of loss incurred, subject to the terms of the agreements. The Company will reimburse the FDIC for its share of recoveries with respect to the covered loans. The loss sharing agreements applicable to single family residential mortgage loans provide for FDIC loss sharing and the Company reimbursement to the FDIC for recoveries for ten years. The loss sharing agreements applicable to commercial loans provide for FDIC loss sharing for five years and Company reimbursement to the FDIC for a total of eight years for recoveries. Our real estate loans are secured by mortgages and consist primarily of loans to individuals and businesses for the purchase, improvement of or investment in real estate, for the construction of single-family residential and commercial units, and for the development of single-family residential building lots. These real estate loans may be made at fixed or variable interest rates. Generally, we do not make fixed-rate commercial real estate loans for terms exceeding five years. Loans in excess of five years are generally adjustable. Our residential real estate loans generally are repayable in monthly installments based on up to a 15-year or a 30-year amortization schedule with variable or fixed interest rates. Our commercial loan portfolio includes loans to individuals and small-to-medium sized businesses located primarily in eighteen Florida counties listed under Business or contiguous counties for working capital, equipment purchases, and various other business purposes. A majority of commercial loans are secured by equipment or similar assets, but these loans may also be made on an unsecured basis. Commercial loans may be made at variable or fixed rates of interest. Commercial lines of credit are typically granted on a one-year basis, with loan covenants and monetary thresholds. Other commercial loans with terms or amortization schedules of longer than one year will normally carry interest rates which vary with the prime lending rate and will become payable in full and are generally refinanced in three to five years. Commercial and agricultural loans not secured by real estate amounted to approximately 9% and 10% of our Company s total loan portfolio as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our consumer loan portfolio consists primarily of loans to individuals for various consumer purposes, but includes some business purpose loans which are payable on an installment basis. The majority of these loans are for terms of less than five years and are secured by liens on various personal assets of the borrowers, but consumer loans may also be made on an unsecured basis. Consumer loans are made at fixed and variable interest rates, and are often based on up to a five-year amortization schedule. For additional information regarding the Company s loan portfolio, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 3 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Loan originations are derived primarily from employee loan officers within our local market areas, but can also be attributed to referrals from existing customers and borrowers, advertising, or walk-in customers. Certain credit risks are inherent in making loans. These include prepayment risks, risks resulting from uncertainties in the future value of collateral, risks resulting from changes in economic and industry conditions, and risks inherent in dealing with individual borrowers. In particular, longer maturities increase the risk that economic conditions will change and adversely affect collectability. We attempt to minimize credit losses through various means. In particular, on larger credits, we generally rely on the cash flow of a debtor as the source of repayment and secondarily on the value of the underlying collateral. In addition, we attempt to utilize shorter loan terms in order to reduce the risk of a decline in the value of such collateral. Deposit Activities Deposits are the major source of our funds for lending and other investment activities. We consider the majority of our regular savings, demand, NOW and money market deposit accounts to be core deposits. These accounts comprised approximately 76% and 68% of our consolidated total deposits at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Approximately 24% of our consolidated deposits at December 31, 2012, were certificates of deposit compared to 32% at December 31, 2011. Generally, we attempt to maintain the rates paid on our deposits at a competitive level. Time deposits of $100,000 and over made up approximately 12% of consolidated total deposits at December 31, 2012 and 18% at December 31, 2011. The majority of the deposits are generated from the eighteen Florida counties listed in the Business section. Generally, we do not accept brokered deposits and we do not solicit deposits on a national level. We obtain all of our deposits from customers in our local markets. For additional information regarding the Company s deposit accounts, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Deposits. Investments Our investment securities portfolio available for sale was $425,758,000 and $591,164,000 at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, representing 18% and 26% of our total consolidated assets. At December 31, 2012 approximately 88% of this portfolio was invested in U.S. government mortgage backed securities ( MBS ), specifically residential FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA MBSs. We do not own any private label MBS. Approximately 2% or $7,546,000 of this portfolio is invested in obligations of U.S. government agencies and government sponsored enterprises, and the remaining 10%, or $45,022,000 is invested in municipal securities. Our investments are managed in relation to loan demand and deposit growth, and are generally used to provide for the investment of excess funds at acceptable risks levels while providing liquidity to fund increases in loan demand or to offset fluctuations in deposits. Investment securities available for sale are recorded on our balance sheet at market value at each balance sheet date. Any change in market value is recorded directly in our stockholders equity account and is not recognized in our income statement unless the security is sold or unless it is impaired and the impairment is other than temporary. During 2012, we sold approximately $168,810,000 of these securities and recognized in our income statement a net gain on the sales of approximately $2,423,000. We have selected these types of investments because such securities generally represent a minimal investment risk. Occasionally, we may purchase certificates of deposits of national and state banks. These investments may exceed $250,000 in any one institution (the limit of FDIC insurance for deposit accounts). Federal funds sold, money market accounts and interest bearing deposits held at the Federal Reserve Bank represent the excess cash we have available over and above daily cash needs. Federal funds sold and money market funds are invested on an overnight basis with approved correspondent banks. We monitor changes in financial markets. In addition to investments for our portfolio, we monitor daily cash positions to ensure that all available funds earn interest at the earliest possible date. A portion of the investment account is invested in liquid securities that can be readily converted to cash with minimum risk of market loss. These investments usually consist of obligations of U.S. government agencies, mortgage backed securities and federal funds. The remainder of the investment account may be placed in investment securities of different type and/or longer maturity. Daily surplus funds are sold in the federal funds market for one business day. We attempt to stagger the maturities of our securities so as to produce a steady cash-flow in the event cash is needed, or economic conditions change. 4 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements We also have a trading securities portfolio managed at our subsidiary bank. For this portfolio, realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in trading securities revenue, a component of non interest income in our Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income. Securities purchased for this portfolio have primarily been municipal securities and are held for short periods of time. During 2012 we purchased approximately $367,105,000 of securities for this portfolio and sold $362,747,000 recognizing a net gain on sale of approximately $715,000. At December 31, 2012 we had $5,048,000 of securities in our trading portfolio. Correspondent Banking We have a corresponding banking and bond sales business segment which operates as a division within our subsidiary bank. Its primary revenue generating activities are as follows: 1) the first, and largest revenue generator, is commissions earned on fixed income security sales; 2) the second category is interest income spread earned on correspondent bank deposits (i.e., federal funds purchased) and correspondent bank checking account deposits; and 3) the third revenue generating category, includes fees from safe-keeping activities, bond accounting services for correspondents, asset/liability consulting related activities, international wires, and other clearing and corporate checking account services. The customer base includes small to medium size financial institutions primarily located in Southeastern United States. Data Processing We use a single in-house core data processing solution. The core data processing system provides automated general ledgers, deposit processing and accounting services, and loan processing and accounting services. Previously, each of our subsidiary banks maintained its own data processing system, with its own general ledger, deposit accounting system and loan accounting system, all housed on the same equipment maintained by the Company. The output of each of these comprehensive systems for each of our banks was then consolidated at the holding company level. In September 2010, our lead bank upgraded to an enhanced in-house system. In December 2010, Central and CSNA converted to the upgraded system simultaneously with their merger into the Company s lead bank. The Company s remaining subsidiary bank, VSB, was converted to the enhanced system during March 2011 and subsequently merged into our lead, and only remaining subsidiary bank, CSB. During July and August of 2010, the Company s subsidiary bank, CSB, acquired three failed financial institutions from the FDIC. Each of these acquired banks did not convert and merge their data processing systems into the Company s subsidiary bank until the summer of 2011. They each operated under different legacy systems for almost a year, which caused cost inefficiencies in the short-term. The branches purchased from TD Bank, N.A. in January of 2011 were converted on the day of acquisition. The Federal Trust Bank acquisition closed on November 1, 2011 and was converted forty days later into the Company s core processing systems on December 9, 2011, minimizing short-term inefficiencies. In January 2012, we acquired two additional failed financial institutions from the FDIC. Each operated under their legacy data processing systems until the Company converted them into its subsidiary bank s core system in May and June of 2012. A division of our subsidiary bank provides item processing services and certain other information technology ( IT ) services for the bank and the Company overall. These services include; sorting, encoding, processing, and imaging checks and rendering checking and other deposit statements to commercial and retail customers, as well as provide IT services, including intranet and internet services for our bank and the Company overall. Effect of Governmental Policies The earnings and business of our Company are and will be affected by the policies of various regulatory authorities of the United States, especially the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve, among other things, regulates the supply of credit and deals with general economic conditions within the United States. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve for these purposes influence in various ways the overall level of investments, loans, other extensions of credit and deposits, and the interest rates paid on liabilities and received on assets. 5 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Interest and Usury Our Company is subject to numerous state and federal statutes that affect the interest rates that may be charged on loans. These laws do not, under present market conditions, deter us from continuing the process of originating loans. Supervision and Regulation Banks and their holding companies, and many of their affiliates, are extensively regulated under both federal and state law. The following is a brief summary of certain statutes, rules, and regulations affecting our Company, and our subsidiary bank. This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statutory and regulatory provisions referred to below and is not intended to be an exhaustive description of the statutes or regulations applicable to the business of our Company and subsidiary bank. Supervision, regulation, and examination of banks by regulatory agencies are intended primarily for the protection of depositors, rather than shareholders. Bank Holding Company Regulation. Our Company is a bank holding company, registered with the Federal Reserve under the BHC Act. As such, we are subject to the supervision, examination and reporting requirements of the BHC Act and the regulations of the Federal Reserve. The BHC Act requires that a bank holding company obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve before (i) acquiring direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank, (ii) taking any action that causes a bank to become a subsidiary of the bank holding company, or (iii) merging or consolidating with any other bank holding company. The BHC Act further provides that the Federal Reserve may not approve any transaction that would result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any section of the United States, or the effect of which may be substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, or that in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed by the public interest in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. The Federal Reserve is also required to consider the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding companies and banks concerned and the convenience, and needs of the community to be served. Consideration of financial resources generally focuses on capital adequacy and consideration of convenience and needs issues includes the parties performance under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977 (the CRA ), both of which are discussed below. Banks are subject to the provisions of the CRA. Under the terms of the CRA, the appropriate federal bank regulatory agency is required, in connection with its examination of a bank, to assess such bank s record in meeting the credit needs of the community served by that bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The regulatory agency s assessment of the bank s record is made available to the public. Further, such assessment is required of any bank which has applied to: establish a new branch office that will accept deposits, relocate an office, or merge or consolidate with, or acquire the assets or assume the liabilities of, a federally regulated financial institution In the case of a bank holding company applying for approval to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the Federal Reserve will assess the record of each subsidiary bank of the applicant bank holding company, and such records may be the basis for denying the application. 6 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The BHC Act generally prohibits a bank holding company from engaging in activities other than banking, or managing or controlling banks or other permissible subsidiaries, and from acquiring or retaining direct or indirect control of any company engaged in any activities other than those activities determined by the Federal Reserve to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. In determining whether a particular activity is permissible, the Federal Reserve must consider whether the performance of such an activity can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. For example, factoring accounts receivable, acquiring or servicing loans, leasing personal property, conducting securities brokerage activities, performing certain data processing services, acting as agent or broker in selling credit life insurance and certain other types of insurance in connection with credit transactions, and certain insurance underwriting activities have all been determined by regulations of the Federal Reserve to be permissible activities of bank holding companies. Despite prior approval, the Federal Reserve has the power to order a holding company or its subsidiaries to terminate any activity or terminate its ownership or control of any subsidiary, when it has reasonable cause to believe that continuation of such activity or such ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness, or stability of any bank subsidiary of that bank holding company. Dodd-Frank Act . In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act, was enacted into law. The Dodd-Frank Act has a broad impact on the financial services industry, including providing for potentially significant regulatory and compliance changes including, among other things, (1) enhanced resolution authority of troubled and failing banks and their holding companies; (2) potential changes to capital and liquidity requirements; (3) changes to regulatory examination fees; (4) changes to assessments to be paid to the FDIC for federal deposit insurance; and (5) numerous other provisions designed to improve supervision and oversight of, and strengthening safety and soundness for, the financial services sector. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act establishes a new framework for systemic risk oversight within the financial system to be distributed among new and existing federal regulatory agencies, including the Financial Stability Oversight Council, the Federal Reserve, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, or the OCC, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the FDIC. Many of the requirements called for in the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented over time and most will be subject to implementing regulations over the course of several years. Given the uncertainty associated with the manner in which the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will be implemented by the various regulatory agencies and through regulations, the full extent of the impact such requirements will have on our operations is unclear. The changes resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act may impact the profitability of our business activities, require changes to certain of our business practices, impose upon us more stringent capital, liquidity and leverage ratio requirements or otherwise adversely affect our business. These changes may also require us to invest significant management attention and resources to evaluate and make necessary changes in order to comply with new statutory and regulatory requirements. Failure to comply with any such laws, regulations, or principles or changes thereto, may negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. While we cannot predict what effect any presently contemplated or future changes in the laws or regulations or their interpretations would have on us, these changes could be materially adverse to our investors and shareholders. The following items provide a brief description of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our operations and activities, both currently and prospectively. Increased Capital Standards and Enhanced Supervision . The federal banking agencies are required to establish minimum leverage and risk-based capital requirements for banks and bank holding companies. These new standards will be no lower than existing regulatory capital and leverage standards applicable to insured depository institutions and may, in fact, be higher when established by the agencies. Compliance with heightened capital standards may reduce our ability to generate or originate revenue-producing assets and thereby restrict revenue generation from banking and non-banking operations. The Dodd-Frank Act also increases regulatory oversight, supervision and examination of banks, bank holding companies and their respective subsidiaries by the appropriate regulatory agency. Compliance with new regulatory requirements and expanded examination processes could increase the Company s cost of operations. 7 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau. The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new, independent Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, or the Bureau, within the Federal Reserve. The Bureau is tasked with establishing and implementing rules and regulations under certain federal consumer protection laws with respect to the conduct of providers of certain consumer financial products and services. The Bureau has rulemaking authority over many of the statutes governing products and services offered to bank consumers. Generally, we will not be directly subject to the rules and regulations of the Bureau. However, the Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer protection laws and regulations that are stricter than those regulations promulgated by the Bureau and state attorneys general are permitted to enforce consumer protection rules adopted by the Bureau against certain state-chartered institutions. Any such new regulations could increase our cost of operations and, as a result, could limit our ability to expand into these products and services. Deposit Insurance. The Dodd-Frank Act makes permanent the $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. Amendments to the Federal Deposit Insurance Act also revise the assessment base against which an insured depository institution s deposit insurance premiums paid to the FDIC s Deposit Insurance Fund, or the DIF, will be calculated. Under the amendments, the assessment base will no longer be the institution s deposit base, but rather its average consolidated total assets less its average tangible equity. Transactions with Affiliates . The Dodd-Frank Act enhances the requirements for certain transactions with affiliates under Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, including an expansion of the definition of covered transactions and increasing the amount of time for which collateral requirements regarding covered transactions must be maintained. Transactions with Insiders . Insider transaction limitations are expanded through the strengthening on loan restrictions to insiders and the expansion of the types of transactions subject to the, various limits. Enhanced Lending Limits . The Dodd-Frank Act strengthens the existing limits on a depository institution s credit exposure to one borrower. Current banking law limits a depository institution s ability to extend credit to one person (or group of related persons) in an amount exceeding certain thresholds. The Dodd-Frank Act expands the scope of these restrictions to include credit exposure arising from derivative transactions, repurchase agreements, and securities lending and borrowing transactions. Basel III . In 2010 the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervision, the oversight body of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, announced an agreement to a strengthened set of capital requirements for internationally active banking organizations in the United States and around the world, known as Basel III. Basel III increases the requirements for minimum common equity, minimum Tier 1 capital and minimum total capital, to be phased in over time until fully phased in by January 1, 2019. In 2012 the Federal Reserve and the FDIC released proposed rules which would implement the Basel III and Dodd-Frank Act capital requirements. While the Basel III changes and other regulatory capital requirements will likely result in generally higher regulatory capital standards, it is difficult at this time to predict how any new standard will ultimately be applied to the Company and the Bank. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act . The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act permits the creation of financial services holding companies that can offer a full range of financial products under a regulatory structure based on the principle of functional regulation. The law eliminated the legal barriers to affiliations among banks and securities firms, insurance companies, and other financial services companies. The law also provides financial organizations with the opportunity to structure these new financial affiliations through a holding company structure or a financial subsidiary. The law reserves the role of the Federal Reserve as the supervisor for bank holding companies. At the same time, the law also provides a system of functional regulation which is designed to utilize the various existing federal and state regulatory bodies. The law also sets up a process for coordination between the Federal Reserve and the Secretary of the Treasury regarding the approval of new financial activities for both bank holding companies and national bank financial subsidiaries. 8 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The law also includes a minimum federal standard of financial privacy. Financial institutions are required to have written privacy policies that must be disclosed to customers. The disclosure of a financial institution s privacy policy must take place at the time a customer relationship is established and not less than annually during the continuation of the relationship. The act also provides for the functional regulation of bank securities activities. The law repealed the exemption that banks were afforded from the definition of broker, and replaced it with a set of limited exemptions that allow the continuation of some historical activities performed by banks. In addition, the act amended the securities laws to include banks within the general definition of dealer. Regarding new bank products, the law provides a procedure for handling products sold by banks that have securities elements. In the area of CRA activities, the law generally requires that financial institutions address the credit needs of low-to-moderate income individuals and neighborhoods in the communities in which they operate. Bank regulators are required to take the CRA ratings of a bank or of the bank subsidiaries of a holding company into account when acting upon certain branch and bank merger and acquisition applications filed by the institution. Under the law, financial holding companies and banks that desire to engage in new financial activities are required to have satisfactory or better CRA Act ratings when they commence the new activity. Bank Regulation . CSB is chartered under the national banking laws and is subject to comprehensive regulation, examination and supervision by the OCC. Each of the deposits of the Bank are insured by the FDIC to the extent provided by law. The Bank also is subject to various laws and regulations applicable to banks. Such regulations include limitations on loans to a single borrower and to its directors, officers and employees; restrictions on the opening and closing of branch offices; the maintenance of required capital and liquidity ratios; the granting of credit under equal and fair conditions; and the disclosure of the costs and terms of such credit. The Bank submits to its examining agencies periodic reports regarding its financial condition and other matters. The bank regulatory agencies have a broad range of powers to enforce regulations under their jurisdiction, and to take discretionary actions determined to be for the protection and safety and soundness of banks, including the institution of cease and desist orders and the removal of directors and officers. The bank regulatory agencies also have the authority to approve or disapprove mergers, consolidations, and similar corporate actions. There are various statutory limitations on the ability of our Company to pay dividends. The bank regulatory agencies also have the general authority to limit the dividend payment by banks if such payment may be deemed to constitute an unsafe and unsound practice. For information on the restrictions on the right of our Bank to pay dividends to our Company, see Part II Item 5 Market for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Under federal law, federally insured banks are subject, with certain exceptions, to certain restrictions on any extension of credit to their parent holding companies or other affiliates, on investment in the stock or other securities of affiliates, and on the taking of such stock or securities as collateral from any borrower. In addition, banks are prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or the providing of any property or service. The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 ( FIRREA ) imposed major regulatory reforms, stronger capital standards and stronger civil and criminal enforcement provisions. FIRREA also provides that a depository institution insured by the FDIC can be held liable for any loss incurred by, or reasonably expected to be incurred by, the FDIC in connection with: the default of a commonly controlled FDIC insured depository institution; or any assistance provided by the FDIC to a commonly controlled FDIC insured institution in danger of default. The FDIC Improvement Act of 1993 ( FDICIA ) made a number of reforms addressing the safety and soundness of deposit insurance funds, supervision, accounting, and prompt regulatory action, and also implemented other regulatory improvements. Periodic full-scope, on-site examinations are required of all insured depository institutions. The cost for conducting an examination of an institution may be assessed to that institution, with special 9 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements consideration given to affiliates and any penalties imposed for failure to provide information requested. Insured state banks also are precluded from engaging as principal in any type of activity that is impermissible for a national bank, including activities relating to insurance and equity investments. The Act also recodified restrictions on extensions of credit to insiders under the Federal Reserve Act. Incentive Compensation Arrangements . In 2010 the Federal Reserve and other regulators jointly published final guidance for structuring incentive compensation arrangements at financial organizations, which guidelines are applicable to all financial institutions. The guidance does not set forth any formulas or pay caps for, but contain certain principles which companies would be required to follow with respect to, employees and groups of employees that may expose the company to material amounts of risk. The three primary principles are (i) balanced risk-taking incentives, (ii) compatibility with effective controls and risk management, and (iii) strong corporate governance. The Federal Reserve will now monitor compliance with this guidance as a part of its safety and soundness oversight. Capital Requirements . The Federal Reserve and bank regulatory agencies require bank holding companies and financial institutions to maintain capital at adequate levels based on a percentage of assets and off-balance sheet exposures, adjusted for risk weights ranging from 0% to 100%. Under the risk-based standard, capital is classified into two tiers. Tier 1 capital consists of common shareholders equity (excluding the unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities), trust preferred securities subject to certain limitations, and minus certain intangible assets and disallowed deferred tax assets. Tier 2 capital consists of the general allowance for credit losses except for certain limitations. An institution s qualifying capital base for purposes of its risk-based capital ratio consists of the sum of its Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. The regulatory minimum requirements are 4% for Tier 1 and 8% for total risk-based capital. At December 31, 2012, our Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios were 16.63% and 17.89%, respectively. FDICIA contains prompt corrective action provisions pursuant to which banks are to be classified into one of five categories based upon capital adequacy, ranging from well capitalized to critically undercapitalized and which require (subject to certain exceptions) the appropriate federal banking agency to take prompt corrective action with respect to an institution which becomes significantly undercapitalized or critically undercapitalized. The OCC and the FDIC have issued regulations to implement the prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA. In general, the regulations define the five capital categories as follows: an institution is well capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater, has a leverage ratio of 5% or greater and is not subject to any written capital order or directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measures; an institution is adequately capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or greater, has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4% or greater, and has a leverage ratio of 4% or greater; an institution is undercapitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8%, has a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 4% or has a leverage ratio that is less than 4%; an institution is significantly undercapitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio that is less than 6%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio that is less than 3% or a leverage ratio that is less than 3%; and an institution is critically undercapitalized if its tangible equity is equal to or less than 2% of its total assets. The OCC and the FDIC, after an opportunity for a hearing, have authority to downgrade an institution from well capitalized to adequately capitalized or to subject an adequately capitalized or undercapitalized institution to the supervisory actions applicable to the next lower category, for supervisory concerns. Generally, FDICIA requires that an undercapitalized institution must submit an acceptable capital restoration plan to the appropriate federal banking agency within 45 days after the institution becomes undercapitalized and the agency must take action on the plan within 60 days. The appropriate federal banking agency may not accept a capital restoration plan unless, among other requirements, each company having control of the institution has guaranteed that the institution will comply with the plan until the institution has been adequately capitalized on average during each of the three consecutive calendar quarters and has provided adequate assurances of performance. The aggregate liability under this provision of all companies having control of an institution is limited to the lesser of: 5% of the institution s total assets at the time the institution becomes undercapitalized or 10 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements the amount which is necessary, or would have been necessary, to bring the institution into compliance with all capital standards applicable to the institution as of the time the institution fails to comply with the plan filed pursuant to FDICIA An undercapitalized institution may not acquire an interest in any company or any other insured depository institution, establish or acquire additional branch offices or engage in any new business unless the appropriate federal banking agency has accepted its capital restoration plan, the institution is implementing the plan, and the agency determines that the proposed action is consistent with and will further the achievement of the plan, or the appropriate Federal banking agency determines the proposed action will further the purpose of the prompt corrective action sections of FDICIA. If an institution is critically undercapitalized, it must comply with the restrictions described above. In addition, the appropriate Federal banking agency is authorized to restrict the activities of any critically undercapitalized institution and to prohibit such an institution, without the appropriate Federal banking agency s prior written approval, from: entering into any material transaction other than in the usual course of business; engaging in any covered transaction with affiliates (as defined in Section 23A(b) of the Federal Reserve Act); paying excessive compensation or bonuses; and paying interest on new or renewed liabilities at a rate that would increase the institution s weighted average costs of funds to a level significantly exceeding the prevailing rates of interest on insured deposits in the institution s normal market areas. The prompt corrective action provisions of FDICIA also provide that in general no institution may make a capital distribution if it would cause the institution to become undercapitalized. Capital distributions include cash (but not stock) dividends, stock purchases, redemptions, and other distributions of capital to the owners of an institution. Additionally, FDICIA requires, among other things, that: only a well capitalized depository institution may accept brokered deposits without prior regulatory approval and the appropriate federal banking agency annually examine all insured depository institutions, with some exceptions for small, well capitalized institutions and state-chartered institutions examined by state regulators. FDICIA also contains a number of consumer banking provisions, including disclosure requirements and substantive contractual limitations with respect to deposit accounts. As of December 31, 2012, our subsidiary Bank met the capital requirements of a well capitalized institution. In addition, our bank has placed a self-imposed voluntary target that it will maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio (Tier 1 Capital divided by average assets) of at least 8%, and has communicated that to the OCC, its primary regulatory agency. At December 31, 2012, its Tier 1 leverage ratio was 9.2%. The OCC has not placed any restrictions or targets upon the Company s subsidiary bank. Enforcement Powers . Congress has provided the federal bank regulatory agencies with an array of powers to enforce laws, rules, regulations and orders. Among other things, the agencies may require that institutions cease and desist from certain activities, may preclude persons from participating in the affairs of insured depository institutions, may suspend or remove deposit insurance, and may impose civil money penalties against institution-affiliated parties for certain violations. 11 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Maximum Legal Interest Rates . Like the laws of many states, Florida law contains provisions on interest rates that may be charged by banks and other lenders on certain types of loans. Numerous exceptions exist to the general interest limitations imposed by Florida law. The relative importance of these interest limitation laws to the financial operations of the Banks will vary from time to time, depending on a number of factors, including conditions in the money markets, the costs and availability of funds, and prevailing interest rates. Change of Control . Federal law restricts the amount of voting stock of a bank holding company and a bank that a person may acquire without the prior approval of banking regulators. The overall effect of such laws is to make it more difficult to acquire a bank holding company and a bank by tender offer or similar means than it might be to acquire control of another type of corporation. Consequently, shareholders of the Company may be less likely to benefit from the rapid increases in stock prices that may result from tender offers or similar efforts to acquire control of other companies. Federal law also imposes restrictions on acquisitions of stock in a bank holding company and a state bank. Under the federal Change in Bank Control Act and the regulations thereunder, a person or group must give advance notice to the Federal Reserve before acquiring control of any bank holding company, and the OCC before acquiring control of any national bank. Upon receipt of such notice, the bank regulatory agencies may approve or disapprove the acquisition. The Change in Bank Control Act creates a rebuttable presumption of control if a member or group acquires a certain percentage or more of a bank holding company s or bank s voting stock, or if one or more other control factors set forth in the Act are present. Effect of Governmental Policies . Our earnings and businesses are affected by the policies of various regulatory authorities of the United States, especially the Federal Reserve. The Federal Reserve, among other things, regulates the supply of credit and deals with general economic conditions within the United States. The instruments of monetary policy employed by the Federal Reserve for those purposes influence in various ways the overall level of investments, loans, other extensions of credit, and deposits, and the interest rates paid on liabilities and received on assets. Sarbanes-Oxley Act . In 2002, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act was enacted which imposes a myriad of corporate governance and accounting measures designed that shareholders are treated and have full and accurate information about the public companies in which they invest. All public companies are affected by the Act. Some of the principal provisions of the Act include: the creation of an independent accounting oversight board ( PCAOB ) to oversee the audit of public companies and auditors who perform such audits; auditor independence provisions which restrict non-audit services that independent accountants may provide to their audit clients; additional corporate governance and responsibility measures which (a) require the chief executive officer and chief financial officer to certify financial statements and internal controls and to forfeit salary and bonuses in certain situations, and (b) protect whistleblowers and informants; expansion of the authority and responsibilities of the company s audit, nominating and compensation committees; mandatory disclosure by analysts of potential conflicts of interest; and enhanced penalties for fraud and other violations. USA Patriot Act . In 2001, the USA Patriot Act was enacted. The Act requires financial institutions to help prevent, detect and prosecute international money laundering and financing of terrorism. The effectiveness of a financial institution in combating money laundering activities is a factor to be considered in any application submitted by the financial institution with the bank regulatory agencies. Our Bank has adopted systems and procedures designed to comply with the USA Patriot Act and regulations adopted thereunder by the Secretary of the Treasury. 12 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Competition We encounter strong competition both in making loans and in attracting deposits. The deregulation of the banking industry and the widespread enactment of state laws which permit multi-bank holding companies as well as an increasing level of interstate banking have created a highly competitive environment for commercial banking. In one or more aspects of its business, our Company competes with other commercial banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies, mutual funds, insurance companies, brokerage and investment banking companies, and other financial intermediaries. Most of these competitors, some of which are affiliated with bank holding companies, have substantially greater resources and lending limits, and may offer certain services that we do not currently provide. In addition, many of our non-bank competitors are not subject to the same extensive federal regulations that govern bank holding companies and federally insured banks. Legislation has continued to heighten the competitive environment in which financial institutions must conduct their business, and the potential for competition among financial institutions of all types has increased significantly. To compete, we rely upon specialized services, responsive handling of customer needs, and personal contacts by its officers, directors, and staff. Large multi-branch banking competitors tend to compete primarily by rate and the number and location of branches while smaller, independent financial institutions tend to compete primarily by rate and personal service. Employees As of December 31, 2012, we had a total of approximately 689 full-time equivalent employees. The employees are not represented by a collective bargaining unit. We consider relations with employees to be good. Statistical Profile and Other Financial Data Reference is hereby made to the statistical and financial data contained in the section captioned Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for statistical and financial data providing a review of our Company s business activities. Availability of Reports furnished or filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are available on our internet website at www.centerstatebanks.com. °Item 1A. Risk Factors We have identified risk factors described below, which should be viewed in conjunction with the other information contained in this document and information incorporated by reference, including our consolidated financial statements and related notes. If any of the following risks or other risks which have not been identified or which we may believe are immaterial or unlikely, actually occur, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be harmed. As noted previously, this report contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, including statements about our future plans, objectives, intentions and expectations. Many factors, including those described below, could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in forward-looking statements. Recent developments in the financial services industry and the U.S. and global capital markets may adversely impact our operations and results. Developments in the capital markets over past several years have resulted in uncertainty in the financial markets in general, with the expectation of the general economic uncertainty continuing in 2013 and potentially longer. Loan portfolio performance has deteriorated at many institutions resulting from, among other factors, a weak 13 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements economy and a decline in the value of collateral. Stock prices of bank holding companies, like ours, have been negatively affected by the current condition of the financial markets and the economy, as has our ability, if needed, to raise capital or borrow in the debt markets, compared to prior periods. As a result, new laws and regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act, regarding lending, funding practices and capital and liquidity standards have been adopted or are being proposed. The financial institution regulatory agencies are expected to aggressively respond to concerns and adverse trends identified in examinations, including the expected issuance of many enforcement actions. Changes in the financial services industry and the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act, Basel III and other regulatory responses to the credit crisis could negatively affect us by restricting our business operations, including our ability to originate or sell loans, and adversely impact our financial performance. Recent Legislative and Regulatory Initiatives Could Affect Our Operations In 2010 the Dodd-Frank Act was enacted and will further increase the regulation and oversight of the financial services industry. The Act addresses, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, thrift charters and changes among the banking regulatory agencies. Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act require studies and regulations. Certain provisions will not apply to banking organizations with less than $10 billion of assets. In addition, Basel III increases the requirements for minimum common equity, minimum Tier 1 capital and minimum total capital, to be phased in over time until fully phased in by January 1, 2019. We cannot predict the effects of this legislation and regulations on us, our competitors, customers, counter parties, and on the financial markets and the economy, although it may significantly increase costs and impede efficiency of internal business processes. It also may require us to hold higher levels of regulatory capital and/or liquidity and it may cause us to adjust our business strategy and limit our future business opportunities. Deterioration in local economic and housing markets could lead to additional loan losses and reduced earnings. There has been a dramatic decrease in housing and real estate values in Florida during recent past years which contributed to elevated levels in our non-performing loans, reduced asset quality and increased our credit cost primarily in 2009, 2010 and 2011. The depressed real estate market and elevated levels of unemployment contributed to our reported losses in 2009 and 2010. In addition, while we reported net income in 2011, it was primarily due to significant bargain purchase gains relating to two transactions closed during the year. During 2012 Florida s real estate market and economy appears to be stabilized and, as a result, substantially all of our credit metrics improved and our non-performing assets at December 31, 2012 were $33.4 million, less than half of our high water mark of $82.3 million at the end of the first quarter of 2011. While these credit improvements were the primary reason for our return to core profitability in 2012, if market conditions reverse and begin to deteriorate again, they may lead to an increase in non-performing assets, elevated credit losses and a return to reduced earnings and potential losses. Our loan portfolio includes commercial and commercial real estate loans that may have higher risks. Our commercial and commercial real estate loans at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were $604.7 million and $573.5 million, respectively, or 53% and 51% of total loans, excluding loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements. Commercial and commercial real estate loans generally carry larger loan balances and can involve a greater degree of financial and credit risk than other loans. As a result, banking regulators continue to give greater scrutiny to lenders with a high concentration of commercial real estate loans in their portfolios, and such lenders are expected to implement stricter underwriting, internal controls, risk management policies and portfolio stress testing, as well as higher capital levels and loss allowances. The increased financial and credit risk associated with these types of loans are a result of several factors, including the concentration of principal in a limited number of loans and borrowers, the size of loan balances, the effects of general economic conditions on income-producing properties and the increased difficulty of evaluating and monitoring these types of loans. 14 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The federal bank regulatory agencies have released guidance on Concentrations in Commercial Real Estate Lending (the Guidance ). The Guidance defines commercial real estate loans as exposures secured by raw land, land development and construction (including 1-4 family residential construction), multi-family property, and non-farm nonresidential property where the primary or a significant source of repayment is derived from rental income associated with the property (that is, loans for which 50% or more of the source of repayment comes from third party, non-affiliated, rental income) or the proceeds of the sale, refinancing, or permanent financing of the property. The Guidance requires that appropriate processes be in place to identify, monitor and control risks associated with real estate lending concentrations. This could include enhanced strategic planning, underwriting policies, risk management, internal controls, portfolio stress testing and risk exposure limits as well as appropriately designed compensation and incentive programs. Higher allowances for loan losses and capital levels may also be required. The Guidance is triggered when commercial real estate loan concentrations exceed either: total reported loans for construction, land development, and other land of 100% or more of a bank s total capital (as of December 31, 2012, our consolidated ratio was 14%); or Total reported loans secured by multifamily and nonfarm nonresidential properties and loans for construction, land development, and other land of 300% or more of a bank s total capital (as of December 31, 2012, our consolidated ratio was 107%). The Guidance applies to the lending activities of our subsidiary bank. Regulators have the right to request banks to maintain elevated levels of capital or liquidity due to commercial real estate loan concentrations, and could do so, especially if there is a further downturn in our local real estate markets. In addition, when underwriting a commercial or industrial loan, we may take a security interest in commercial real estate, and, in some instances upon a default by the borrower, we may foreclose on and take title to the property, which may lead to potential financial risks for us under applicable environmental laws. If hazardous substances were discovered on any of these properties, we may be liable to governmental agencies or third parties for the costs of remediation of the hazard, as well as for personal injury and property damage. Many environmental laws can impose liability regardless of whether the Company knew of, or were responsible for, the contamination. Furthermore, the repayment of loans secured by commercial real estate is typically dependent upon the successful operation of the related real estate or commercial project. If the cash flows from the project are reduced, a borrower s ability to repay the loan may be impaired. This cash flow shortage may result in the failure to make loan payments. In such cases, we may be compelled to modify the terms of the loan. In addition, the nature of these loans is such that they are generally less predictable and more difficult to evaluate and monitor. As a result, repayment of these loans may, to a greater extent than residential loans, be subject to adverse conditions in the real estate market or economy. Our business is subject to the success of the local economies where we operate. Our success significantly depends upon the growth in population, income levels, deposits and housing starts in our primary and secondary markets. During the recent economic downturn, the rate of growth of each of these four factors has decreased substantially and in some cases has turned negative. If the communities in which we operate do not grow or if prevailing economic conditions locally or nationally continue to remain challenging, our business may be adversely affected. Our specific market areas have experienced decreased growth, which has affected the ability of our customers to repay their loans to us and has generally affected our financial condition and results of operations. We are less able than a larger institution to spread the risks of unfavorable local economic conditions across a large number of diversified economies. Moreover, we cannot give any assurance we will benefit from any market growth or favorable economic conditions in our primary market areas if they do occur. If the value of real estate in our core Florida markets were to remain depressed or decline further, a significant portion of our loan portfolio could become under-collateralized, which could have a material adverse effect on us. With our loans concentrated in Florida, the decline in local economic conditions has adversely affected the values of our real estate collateral and will likely continue to do so for the foreseeable future. Consequently, a continued decline in local economic conditions may have a greater effect on our earnings and capital than on the earnings and capital of larger financial institutions whose real estate loan portfolios are geographically diverse. 15 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In addition to relying on the financial strength and cash flow characteristics of the borrower in each case, we often secure loans with real estate collateral. At December 31, 2012, approximately 87% of our loans have real estate as a primary or secondary component of collateral. The real estate collateral in each case provides an alternate source of repayment in the event of default by the borrower but may deteriorate in value during the time credit is extended. If we are required to liquidate the collateral securing a loan to satisfy the debt during a period of reduced real estate values, our earnings and capital could be adversely affected. An inadequate allowance for loan losses would reduce our earnings. The risk of credit losses on loans varies with, among other things, general economic conditions, the type of loan being made, the creditworthiness of the borrower over the term of the loan and, in the case of a collateralized loan, the value and marketability of the collateral for the loan. Management maintains an allowance for loan losses based upon, among other things, historical experience, an evaluation of economic conditions and regular reviews of delinquencies and loan portfolio quality. Based upon such factors, management makes various assumptions and judgments about the ultimate collectability of the loan portfolio and provides an allowance for loan losses based upon a percentage of the outstanding balances and for specific loans when their ultimate collectability is considered questionable. If management s assumptions and judgments prove to be incorrect and the allowance for loan losses is inadequate to absorb losses, or if bank regulatory authorities require us to increase the allowance for loan losses as a part of their examination process, our earnings and capital could be significantly and adversely affected. A lack of liquidity could affect our operations and jeopardize our financial condition. Liquidity is essential to our business. An inability to raise funds through deposits, borrowings, the sale of loans and other sources could have a substantial negative effect on our liquidity. Our funding sources include federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements, non-core deposits, and short- and long-term debt. There are other sources of liquidity available to us should they be needed, including our ability to acquire additional non-core deposits, the issuance and sale of debt securities, and the issuance and sale of preferred or common securities in public or private transactions. Our access to funding sources in amounts adequate to finance or capitalize our activities or on terms that are acceptable to us could be impaired by factors that affect us specifically or the financial services industry or economy in general. Our ability to borrow could be impaired by factors that are not specific to us, such as further disruption in the financial markets or negative views and expectations about the prospects for the financial services industry in light of the recent turmoil faced by banking organizations and the continued deterioration in credit markets. We are required to maintain capital to meet regulatory requirements, and if we fail to maintain sufficient capital, whether due to losses, an inability to raise additional capital or otherwise, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations, as well as our ability to maintain regulatory compliance, would be adversely affected. We and our subsidiary bank must meet regulatory capital requirements and maintain sufficient liquidity. Banking organizations experiencing growth, especially those making acquisitions are expected to hold additional capital, above regulatory minimums. From time to time, the regulators implement changes to these regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, such as through the Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel III initiatives described above. It is anticipated that when fully implemented by the banking agencies and fully phased-in, these standards will result in higher and more stringent capital requirements for us and our banking subsidiary. In particular, the Basel III proposals will require us to maintain a minimum ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk weighed assets of at least 7% when fully phased-in. Further, under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve, using a phased-in approach commencing in 2013, will no longer include trust preferred and certain other hybrid debt securities in Tier 1 capital. Such eventual loss of Tier 1 capital and any other actions (if necessary) to replace such capital, may adversely affect us. Our ability to raise additional capital, when and if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets, 16 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements economic conditions and a number of other factors, including investor perceptions regarding the banking industry and market condition, and governmental activities, many of which are outside our control, and on our financial condition and performance. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that we will be able to raise additional capital if needed or on terms acceptable to us. If we fail to meet these capital and other regulatory requirements, our financial condition, liquidity and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. Our failure to remain well capitalized for bank regulatory purposes could affect customer confidence, our ability to grow, our costs of funds and FDIC insurance costs, our ability to pay dividends on common stock and make distributions on our trust preferred securities, our ability to make acquisitions, and our business, results of operations and financial condition. Under FDIC rules, if our subsidiary bank ceases to be a well capitalized institution for bank regulatory purposes, the interest rates that it pays and its ability to accept brokered deposits may be restricted. Although we had no wholesale brokered deposits as of December 31, 2012, we had approximately $13 million of in-market CDARs deposits, which are considered brokered deposits for regulatory purposes. Our business strategy includes continued growth, and our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively affected if we fail to grow or fail to manage our growth effectively. We intend to continue pursuing a growth strategy for our business. Our prospects must be considered in light of the risks, expenses and difficulties frequently encountered by companies in significant growth stages of development. Particularly in light of prevailing economic conditions, we cannot assure you we will be able to expand our market presence in our existing markets or successfully enter new markets or that any such expansion will not adversely affect our results of operations. Failure to manage our growth effectively could have a material adverse effect on our business, future prospects, financial condition or results of operations, and could adversely affect our ability to successfully implement our business strategy. Also, if our growth occurs more slowly than anticipated or declines, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. Our ability to successfully grow will depend on a variety of factors including the continued availability of desirable business opportunities, the competitive responses from other financial institutions in our market areas and our ability to manage our growth. While we believe we have the management resources and internal systems in place to successfully manage our future growth, there can be no assurance growth opportunities will be available or growth will be successfully managed. We may face risks with respect to future expansion. We may acquire other financial institutions through FDIC assisted transactions or otherwise or parts of those institutions in the future and we may engage in additional de novo branch expansion. We may also consider and enter into new lines of business or offer new products or services. We also may receive future inquiries and have discussions with potential acquirors of us. Acquisitions and mergers involve a number of risks, including: the time and costs associated with identifying and evaluating potential acquisitions and merger partners; inaccurate estimates and judgments regarding credit, operations, management and market risks of the target institution; the time and costs of evaluating new markets, hiring experienced local management and opening new offices, and the time lags between these activities and the generation of sufficient assets and deposits to support the costs of the expansion; our ability to finance an acquisition and possible dilution to our existing shareholders; the diversion of our management s attention to the negotiation of a transaction, and the integration of the operations and personnel of the combining businesses; entry into new markets where we lack experience; 17 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements the strain of growth on our infrastructure, staff, internal controls and management, which may require additional personnel, time and expenditures; exposure to potential asset quality issues with acquired institutions; the introduction of new products and services into our business; the possibility of unknown or contingent liabilities; the incurrence and possible impairment of goodwill associated with an acquisition and possible adverse short-term effects on our results of operations; and the risk of loss of key employees and customers. We may incur substantial costs to expand, and we can give no assurance such expansion will result in the levels of profits we seek. There can be no assurance that integration efforts for any future mergers or acquisitions will be successful. Also, we may issue equity securities, including common stock and securities convertible into shares of our common stock, in connection with future acquisitions, which could cause ownership and economic dilution to our current shareholders and to investors purchasing common stock in this offering. There is no assurance that, following any future mergers or acquisitions, our integration efforts will be successful or our company, after giving effect to the acquisition, will achieve profits comparable to or better than our historical experience. The FDIC-assisted transactions we have engaged in or may engage in could present additional risks to our business. We have closed six FDIC-assisted transactions and continue to seek opportunities to continue to acquire the assets and liabilities of other failed banks in FDIC-assisted transactions. Current and future FDIC-assisted transactions present the risks of acquisitions, generally, as well as some risks specific to these transactions. These FDIC-assisted transactions typically provide for FDIC assistance, including potential loss-sharing, to an acquirer to mitigate the credit risks of acquired loans and securities, which, may include loss-sharing. FDIC-assisted transactions have many of the same risks we could face in acquiring another open bank without FDIC assistance, including risks associated with competitive bidding and pricing of such transactions, the risk of loss of deposits and, liquidity through runoff or customer attrition, and failure to realize the anticipated acquisition benefits in the amounts and within the timeframes we expect. In addition, because these acquisitions provide for limited diligence and negotiation of terms, these transactions may pose risks not present in open bank transactions. Loss sharing with the FDIC reduces the credit risks of, and capital required for, FDIC-assisted transactions, but requires additional resources and time to service acquired problem loans, costs related to integration of personnel and operating systems, and the establishment of processes and internal controls to service acquired assets in accordance with FDIC standards. If we are unable to manage these risks, FDIC-assisted acquisitions could have material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. Attractive acquisition opportunities may not be available to us in the future. While we seek continued organic growth, as our earnings and capital position improve, we may consider the acquisition of other businesses, including, as discussed above, failed depository institutions offered for sale in FDIC-assisted transactions. The FDIC determines the timing and terms of the sale of failed institutions, and selects the winning bidder based on the least cost to the FDIC. The failed banks offered for sale may or may not meet our business objectives. We expect that other banking and financial companies, many of which have significantly greater resources, will compete with us to acquire financial services businesses. This competition could increase prices for potential acquisitions, including the premiums on deposits and the prices paid for assets in FDIC-assisted transactions. This could reduce our potential returns, and reduce the attractiveness of these opportunities and increase their credit and other risks. Also, acquisitions are subject to various regulatory approvals. If we fail to receive the appropriate regulatory approvals, we will not be able to consummate an acquisition that we believe is in our best interests. Among other things, our regulators consider our capital, liquidity, profitability, regulatory compliance and levels of goodwill and intangibles when considering acquisition and expansion proposals. Any acquisition could be dilutive to our earnings and shareholders equity per share of our common stock. 18 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our recent results may not be indicative of our future results. We may not be able to sustain our historical rate of growth or may not even be able to grow our business at all. In addition, our recent growth may distort some of our historical financial ratios and statistics. Various factors, such as economic conditions, regulatory and legislative considerations and competition, may also impede or prohibit our ability to expand our market presence. If we experience a significant decrease in our historical rate of growth, our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected due to a high percentage of our operating costs being fixed expenses. Our continued pace of growth may require us to raise additional capital in the future, but that capital may not be available when it is needed. We are required by federal and state regulatory authorities to maintain adequate levels of capital to support our operations. Our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, will depend on conditions in the capital markets at that time, which are outside our control, and on our financial performance. Accordingly, there is no assurance as to our ability to raise additional capital if needed on terms acceptable to us. If we cannot raise additional capital when needed, our ability to further expand our operations through internal growth and acquisitions could be materially impaired. Changes in interest rates may negatively affect our earnings and the value of our assets. Our earnings and cash flows are largely dependent upon our net interest income. Net interest income is the difference between interest income earned on interest-earnings assets, such as loans and investment securities, and interest expense paid on interest-bearing liabilities, such as deposits and borrowed funds. Interest rates are sensitive to many factors that are beyond our control, including general economic conditions, competition and policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies and, in particular, the policies of the Federal Reserve. Changes in monetary policy, including changes in interest rates, could influence not only the interest our Banks receive on loans and investment securities and the amount of interest they pay on deposits and borrowings, but such changes could also affect (i) the Bank s ability to originate loans and obtain deposits, (ii) the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities, including the available for sale securities portfolio, and (iii) the average duration of our interest-earning assets. Changes in monetary policy could also expose us to the risk that interest-earning assets may be more responsive to changes in interest rates than interest-bearing liabilities, or vice versa (repricing risk), the risk that the individual interest rates or rates indices underlying various interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities may not change in the same degree over a given time period (basis risk), and the risk of changing interest rate relationships across the spectrum of interest-earning asset and interest-bearing liability maturities (yield curve risk), including a prolonged flat or inverted yield curve environment. Any substantial, unexpected, prolonged change in market interest rates could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Higher FDIC deposit insurance premiums and assessments could adversely affect our financial condition. FDIC insurance premiums increased substantially in recent years and we may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums in the future. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the FDIC deposit insurance assessments and increased the required Deposit Insurance Fund ( DIF ) reserve ratio, and no longer requires that dividends be paid to FDIC members from excess reserves. It is possible that FDIC insurance costs will increase further, although banks with less than $10 billion of assets will have the effects of the higher DIF reserve ratio offset by the FDIC. Recent levels of market volatility are unprecedented. The capital and credit markets have experienced volatility and disruption the past several years. In some cases, the markets have produced downward pressure on stock prices and credit availability for certain issuers without regard to those issuers underlying financial condition or performance. If these periodic market disruptions and volatility continue or worsen, we may experience adverse effects, which may be material, on our ability to maintain or access capital and on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 19 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, FDIC insurance assessments, interest rates and competitive pressures. Our cost of funds may increase as a result of general economic conditions, FDIC insurance assessments, interest rates and competitive pressures. We have traditionally obtained funds principally through local deposits and we have a base of lower cost transaction deposits. Generally, we believe local deposits are a less expensive and more stable source of funds than other borrowings because interest rates paid for local deposits are typically lower than interest rates charged for borrowings from other institutional lenders and reflect a mix of transaction and time deposits, whereas brokered deposits typically are higher cost time deposits. Our costs of funds and our profitability and liquidity are likely to be adversely affected, if and to the extent we have to rely upon higher cost borrowings from other institutional lenders or brokers to fund loan demand or liquidity needs, and changes in our deposit mix and growth could adversely affect our profitability and the ability to expand our loan portfolio. Competition from financial institutions and other financial service providers may adversely affect our profitability. The banking business is highly competitive and we experience competition in our markets from many other financial institutions. We compete with commercial banks, credit unions, mortgage banking firms, consumer finance companies, securities brokerage firms, insurance companies, money market funds, and other mutual funds, as well as other super-regional, national and international financial institutions that operate offices in our primary market areas and elsewhere. We compete with these institutions both in attracting deposits and in making loans. In addition, we have to attract our customer base from other existing financial institutions and from new residents. Many of our competitors are well-established, larger financial institutions. While we believe we can and do successfully compete with these other financial institutions in our primary markets, we may face a competitive disadvantage as a result of our smaller size, lack of geographic diversification and inability to spread our marketing costs across a broader market. Although we compete by concentrating our marketing efforts in our primary markets with local advertisements, personal contacts, and greater flexibility and responsiveness in working with local customers, we can give no assurance this strategy will be successful. The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect us. Our ability to engage in routine funding and other transactions could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing, counterparty or other relationships. Defaults by, or even rumors or questions about, one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, have led to market-wide liquidity problems and losses of depositor, creditor and counterparty confidence and could lead to losses or defaults by us or by other institutions. We could experience increases in deposits and assets as a result of other banks difficulties or failure, which would increase the capital we need to support our growth. We are subject to extensive regulation that could limit or restrict our activities. We operate in a highly regulated industry and are subject to examination, supervision, and comprehensive regulation by various federal and state agencies, including the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the FDIC, FINRA, and the SEC. These regulations are primarily intended to protect depositors, not shareholders. Our compliance with these regulations is costly and restricts certain of our activities, including payment of dividends, mergers and acquisitions, investments, loans and interest rates charged, interest rates paid on deposits and locations of offices. We are also subject to capitalization guidelines established by our regulators, which require us to maintain adequate capital to support our growth. 20 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The laws and regulations applicable to the banking industry could change at any time, and we cannot predict the effects of these changes on our business and profitability. Because government regulation greatly affects the business and financial results of all commercial banks and bank holding companies, our cost of compliance could adversely affect our ability to operate profitably. We are dependent upon the services of our management team. Our future success and profitability are substantially dependent upon the management and banking abilities of our senior executives. Although we currently have employment agreements in place with our senior management team, we cannot guarantee you that our senior executives will remain with us. Changes in key personnel and their responsibilities may be disruptive to our business and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. We believe that our future results will also depend in part upon our attracting and retaining highly skilled and qualified management and sales and marketing personnel. Competition for such personnel is intense, and we cannot assure you that we will be successful in retaining such personnel. Technological changes affect our business, and we may have fewer resources than many competitors to invest in technological improvements. The financial services industry is undergoing rapid technological changes with frequent introductions of new technology-driven products and services. In addition to serving clients better, the effective use of technology may increase efficiency and may enable financial institutions to reduce costs. Our future success will depend, in part, upon our ability to use technology to provide products and services that provide convenience to customers and to create additional efficiencies in operations. We may need to make significant additional capital investments in technology in the future, and we may not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven products and services. Many competitors have substantially greater resources to invest in technological improvements. Hurricanes or other adverse weather events would negatively affect our local economies or disrupt our operations, which would have an adverse effect on our business or results of operations. Our market areas in Florida are susceptible to hurricanes and tropical storms and related flooding and wind damage. Such weather events can disrupt operations, result in damage to properties and negatively affect the local economies in the markets where they operate. We cannot predict whether or to what extent damage that may be caused by future hurricanes will affect our operations or the economies in our current or future market areas, but such weather events could result in a decline in loan originations, a decline in the value or destruction of properties securing our loans and an increase in delinquencies, foreclosures or loan losses. Our business or results of operations may be adversely affected by these and other negative effects of future hurricanes or tropical storms, including flooding and wind damage. Many of our customers have incurred significantly higher property and casualty insurance premiums on their properties located in our markets, which may adversely affect real estate sales and values in those markets. 21 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements °Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None °Item 2. Properties Our Holding Company owns no real property. Our corporate office is leased from our subsidiary bank, and is located at 42745 U.S. Highway 27, Davenport, Florida 33837. At the end of 2012, our Company, through our subsidiary bank, operated a total of 55 banking offices in 18 counties in central and northeast Florida. We own 45 and lease 10 of these offices. Further, we have leased office space in Birmingham, Alabama, Atlanta, Georgia and Winston-Salem, North Carolina used by our correspondent banking division personnel. See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of our Company included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and Managements Discussion and Analysis Bank Premises and Equipment, for additional information regarding our premises and equipment. °Item 3. Legal Proceedings Our Bank is periodically a party to or otherwise involved in legal proceedings arising in the normal course of business, such as claims to enforce liens, claims involving the making and servicing of real property loans, and other issues incident to their respective businesses. The Bank also has received and responded to several grand jury subpoenas (the Subpoenas ) from the United States District Court for the Northern District of Florida related to an approximately $3.75 million loan the Bank extended to a bank holding company (the BHC Borrower ) in December 2008 (the BHC Loan ). The BHC Loan was paid in full by the FDIC under the Temporary Liquidity Guaranty Program following the failure of the BHC Borrower s bank subsidiaries. The Bank is cooperating with the government s investigation and has provided the information requested in the Subpoenas. We do not believe any pending or threatened legal proceedings in the ordinary course against the Bank would have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or consolidated financial position, however, we cannot predict the timing or findings of the grand jury investigation or its effects upon us. °Item 4. [Removed and Reserved] 22 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PART II °Item 5. Market for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities The shares of our Common Stock are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The following sets forth the high and low trading prices for trades of our Common Stock that occurred during 2012 and 2011. 2012 2011 High Low High Low 1st Quarter $ 8.28 $ 6.29 $ 8.23 $ 6.53 2nd Quarter $ 8.38 $ 6.55 $ 7.08 $ 5.54 3rd Quarter $ 9.22 $ 7.11 $ 7.05 $ 5.01 4th Quarter $ 9.15 $ 7.00 $ 6.75 $ 4.80 As of December 31, 2012, there are 30,079,767 shares of common stock outstanding. We have approximately 808 registered shareholders, as reported by our transfer agent, Continental Stock Transfer Trust Company. Dividends We have historically paid cash dividends on a quarterly basis, on the last business day of the calendar quarter. The following sets forth per share cash dividends paid during 2012 and 2011. 2012 2011 1st Quarter $ 0.01 $ 0.01 2nd Quarter $ 0.01 $ 0.01 3rd Quarter $ 0.01 $ 0.01 4th Quarter $ 0.01 $ 0.01 The payment of dividends is a decision of our Board of Directors based upon then-existing circumstances, including our rate of growth, profitability, financial condition, existing and anticipated capital requirements, the amount of funds legally available for the payment of cash dividends, regulatory constraints and such other factors as the Board determines relevant. Our source of funds for payment of dividends is dividends received from our Bank, or excess cash available to us. Payments by our subsidiary Bank to us are limited by law and regulations of the bank regulatory authorities. There are various statutory and contractual limitations on the ability of our Bank to pay dividends to us. The bank regulatory agencies also have the general authority to limit the dividends paid by banks if such payment may be deemed to constitute an unsafe and unsound practice. Our Bank may not pay dividends from its paid-in surplus. All dividends must be paid out of undivided profits then on hand, after deducting expenses, including reserves for losses and bad debts. In addition, a national bank is prohibited from declaring a dividend on its shares of common stock until its surplus equals its stated capital, unless there has been transferred to surplus no less than one/tenth of the bank s net profits of the preceding two consecutive half-year periods (in the case of an annual dividend). The approval of the OCC is required if the total of all dividends declared by a national bank in any calendar year exceeds the total of its net profits for that year combined with its retained net profits for the preceding two years, less any required transfers to surplus. Share Repurchases We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during 2012. 23 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Stock Plans With respect to information regarding our securities authorized for issuance under equity incentive plans, the information contained in the section entitled Equity Compensation Plan Information in our Definitive Proxy Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference. Performance Graph Shares of our common stock are traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. The following graph compares the yearly percentage change in cumulative shareholder return on the Company s common stock, with the cumulative total return of the S P 500 Index and the SNL Southeast Bank Index, since December 31, 2007 (assuming a $100 investment on December 31, 2007 and reinvestment of all dividends). 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 CenterState Banks, Inc. 100 140 83 65 55 70 SNL Southeast Bank Index 100 38 38 36 21 35 S P 500 100 62 76 86 86 97 24 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements °Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures and Ratios The accounting and reporting policies of the Company conform to generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) in the United States and prevailing practices in the banking industry. However, certain non-GAAP performance measures and ratios are used by management to evaluate and measure the Company s performance. These include taxable-equivalent net interest income (including its individual components), net interest margin (including its individual components), the efficiency ratio, tangible assets, tangible shareholders equity, tangible book value per common share, and tangible equity to tangible assets. Management believes that these measures and ratios provide users of the Company s financial information with a more meaningful view of the performance of the interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities and of the Company s operating efficiency. Other financial holding companies may define or calculate these measures and ratios differently. Management also uses non-GAAP financial measures to help explain the variance in total non-interest expenses excluding merger and acquisition related expenses, impairment of bank property held for sale, credit related expenses and correspondent banking division expenses between the periods presented. Management uses this non-GAAP financial measure in its analysis of the Company s performance and believes this presentation provides useful supplemental information, and a clearer understanding of the Company s non-interest expense between periods presented. Management reviews yields on certain asset categories and the net interest margin of the Company and its banking subsidiaries on a fully taxable equivalent basis. In this non-GAAP presentation, net interest income is adjusted to reflect tax-exempt interest income on an equivalent before-tax basis. This measure ensures the comparability of net interest income arising from both taxable and tax-exempt sources. Net interest income on a fully taxable equivalent basis is also used in the calculation of the Company s efficiency ratio. The efficiency ratio is calculated by dividing non-interest expense (less nonrecurring items, credit related expenses and intangible amortization ) by total taxable-equivalent net interest income and non-interest income (less securities gains or losses, FDIC indemnification income and nonrecurring items). The efficiency ratio is also calculated excluding correspondent income and expense from the calculation. These measures provide an estimate of how much it costs to produce one dollar of revenue. The items excluded from this calculation provide a better match of revenue from daily operations to operational expenses. Tangible assets is defined as total assets reduced by goodwill and other intangible assets. Tangible common equity is defined as total common equity reduced by goodwill and other intangible assets. Tangible common equity to tangible assets is defined as tangible common equity divided by tangible assets. These measures are important to many investors in the marketplace who are interested in the common equity to assets ratio exclusive of the effect of changes in intangible assets on common equity and total assets. Tangible common equity per common share outstanding is defined as tangible common equity divided by total common shares outstanding. This measure is important to many investors in the marketplace who are interested in changes from period to period in book value per share exclusive of changes in intangible assets. Goodwill, an intangible asset that is recorded in a purchase business combination, has the effect of increasing total book value while not increasing our tangible book value. These disclosures should not be considered in isolation or a substitute for results determined in accordance with GAAP, and are not necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures which may be presented by other bank holding companies. Management compensates for these limitations by providing detailed reconciliations between GAAP information and the non-GAAP financial measures. 25 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The following tables present a reconciliation of certain non-GAAP performance measures and ratios used by the Company to evaluate and measure the Company s performance to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures: Years ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Income Statement Non-GAAP measures and ratios Interest income (GAAP) Noncovered loans $ 58,050 $ 54,497 $ 51,538 $ 53,428 $ 57,403 Covered loans 23,542 11,396 4,159 Securities taxable 11,297 14,296 16,833 18,436 7,822 Securities tax-exempt 1,423 1,422 1,424 1,472 1,512 Federal funds sold and other 638 632 626 608 1,345 Total Interest income (GAAP) 94,950 82,243 74,580 73,944 68,082 Taxable equivalent adjustment Noncovered loans 646 539 113 100 116 Securities tax-exempt 697 678 645 626 548 Total tax equivalent adjustment 1,343 1,217 758 726 664 Interest income tax equivalent Noncovered loans 58,696 55,036 51,651 53,528 57,519 Covered loans 23,542 11,396 4,159 Securities taxable 11,297 14,296 16,833 18,436 7,822 Securities tax-exempt 2,120 2,100 2,069 2,098 2,060 Federal funds sold and other 638 632 626 608 1,345 Total interest income tax equivalent 96,293 83,460 75,338 74,670 68,746 Total interest expense (GAAP) (8,481 ) (12,207 ) (16,742 ) (22,290 ) (27,797 ) Net interest income tax equivalent $ 87,812 $ 71,253 $ 58,596 $ 52,380 $ 40,949 Net interest income (GAAP) $ 86,469 $ 70,036 $ 57,838 $ 51,654 $ 40,285 Yields and costs Yield on noncovered loans tax equivalent 5.21 % 5.31 % 5.49 % 5.80 % 6.72 % Yield on loans tax equivalent 5.67 % 5.46 % 5.45 % 5.80 % 6.72 % Yield on securities tax-exempt tax equivalent 5.41 % 5.88 % 5.94 % 5.73 % 5.41 % Yield on interest earning assets (GAAP) 4.58 % 4.30 % 4.30 % 4.54 % 6.14 % Yield on interest earning assets tax equivalent 4.65 % 4.36 % 4.34 % 4.58 % 6.20 % Cost of interest bearing liabilities (GAAP) 0.51 % 0.81 % 1.22 % 1.66 % 3.01 % Net interest spread (GAAP) 4.07 % 3.49 % 3.08 % 2.88 % 3.13 % Net interest spread tax equivalent 4.14 % 3.55 % 3.12 % 2.92 % 3.19 % Net interest margin (GAAP) 4.18 % 3.66 % 3.33 % 3.17 % 3.64 % Net interest margin tax equivalent 4.24 % 3.72 % 3.38 % 3.22 % 3.70 % Efficiency ratio Non interest income (GAAP) $ 59,261 $ 101,972 $ 54,933 $ 30,052 $ 10,807 Gain on sale of securities (2,423 ) (3,464 ) (7,034 ) (2,516 ) (661 ) Nonrecurring income (453 ) (57,020 ) (1,377 ) (1,483 ) FDIC indemnification income (6,017 ) (1,132 ) Adjusted non interest income 50,368 40,356 46,522 27,536 8,663 Correspondent banking non interest income (35,707 ) (27,066 ) (34,314 ) (18,746 ) Adjusted non interest income, ex. correspondent 14,661 13,290 12,208 8,790 8,663 Net interest income before provision (GAAP) 86,469 70,036 57,838 51,654 40,285 Total tax equivalent adjustment 1,343 1,217 758 726 664 Adjusted net interest income 87,812 71,253 58,596 52,380 40,949 Correspondent net interest income (4,023 ) (3,822 ) (4,967 ) (6,622 ) Adjusted net interest income, ex. correspondent 83,789 67,431 53,629 45,758 40,949 26 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Years ending December 31, continued from previous page 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Non interest expense (GAAP) 121,980 114,689 93,325 68,714 39,936 CDI and Trust intangible amortization (1,372 ) (804 ) (519 ) (792 ) (777 ) Credit related expenses (11,206 ) (12,696 ) (6,278 ) (4,553 ) (1,006 ) Nonrecurring expense (3,328 ) (7,696 ) (769 ) (1,200 ) Adjusted non interest expense $ 106,074 $ 93,493 $ 85,759 $ 62,169 $ 38,153 Correspondent non interest expense (30,651 ) (25,461 ) (28,837 ) (15,954 ) Adjusted non interest expense, ex. correspondent 75,423 68,032 56,922 46,215 38,153 Efficiency ratio, including correspondent banking 77 % 84 % 82 % 78 % 77 % Efficiency ratio, excluding correspondent banking 77 % 84 % 86 % 85 % 77 % Analysis of changes in interest income and expense Net change December 31, 2012 versus 2011 Volume Rate Net change Loans tax equivalent 13,261 2,545 15,806 Securities tax-exempt tax equivalent 194 (174 ) 20 Total interest income tax equivalent 12,310 523 12,833 Net interest income tax equivalent 12,408 4,151 16,559 Analysis of changes in interest income and expense Net change December 31, 2011 versus 2010 Volume Rate Net change Loans tax equivalent 10,515 107 10,622 Securities tax-exempt tax equivalent 52 (21 ) 31 Total interest income tax equivalent 9,660 (1,538 ) 8,122 Net interest income tax equivalent 9,172 3,485 12,657 Non interest expense analysis 2012 2011 increase/ (decrease) $ increase/ (decrease) % Total non-interest expense (GAAP) $ 121,980 $ 114,689 $ 7,291 6.4 % Less: merger, acquisition, conversion expenses (2,714 ) (7,696 ) (4,982 ) (64.7 %) Less: impairment of bank property held for sale (614 ) 614 na Subtotal 118,652 106,993 11,659 10.9 % Less: credit related expenses (11,206 ) (12,696 ) (1,490 ) (11.7 %) Less: correspondent segment (28,168 ) (23,883 ) 4,285 17.9 % Non-interest expense excluding credit cost, correspondent segment, merger related expenses, and impairment of bank property held for sale (Non-GAAP) $ 79,278 $ 70,414 $ 8,864 12.6 % Years ended December 31, (Dollars in thousands, except per share data) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Balance Sheet Non-GAAP measures and ratios Total assets $ 2,363,240 $ 2,284,459 $ 2,062,924 $ 1,751,299 $ 1,333,143 Goodwill (44,924 ) (38,035 ) (38,035 ) (32,840 ) (28,118 ) Intangible assets, net (7,307 ) (5,203 ) (3,921 ) (2,422 ) (3,948 ) Tangible assets $ 2,311,009 $ 2,241,221 $ 2,020,968 $ 1,716,037 $ 1,301,077 Common stockholders equity $ 273,531 $ 262,633 $ 252,249 $ 229,410 $ 152,378 Goodwill (44,924 ) (38,035 ) (38,035 ) (32,840 ) (28,118 ) Intangible assets, net (7,307 ) (5,203 ) (3,921 ) (2,422 ) (3,948 ) Tangible common stockholders equity $ 221,300 $ 219,395 $ 210,293 $ 194,148 $ 120,312 Book value per common share $ 9.09 $ 8.74 $ 8.41 $ 8.90 $ 12.22 Effect of intangible assets $ (1.73 ) $ (1.44 ) $ (1.40 ) $ (1.37 ) $ (2.57 ) Tangible book value per common share $ 7.36 $ 7.30 $ 7.01 $ 7.53 $ 9.64 Equity to total assets 11.57 % 11.50 % 12.23 % 13.10 % 11.43 % Effect of intangible assets (1.99 %) (1.71 %) (1.82 %) (1.79 %) (2.18 %) Tangible common equity to tangible assets 9.58 % 9.79 % 10.41 % 11.31 % 9.25 % 27 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The selected consolidated financial data presented below should be read in conjunction with management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, and the consolidated financial statements and footnotes thereto, of the Company at December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the three year period ended December 31, 2012, presented elsewhere herein. Operating results for prior periods are not necessarily indicative of results that might be expected for any future period. Selected Consolidated Financial Data For the twelve month period ending or as of December 31 (Dollars in thousands except for share and per share data) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS: Total interest income $ 94,950 $ 82,243 $ 74,580 $ 73,944 $ 68,082 Total interest expense (8,481 ) (12,207 ) (16,742 ) (22,290 ) (27,797 ) Net interest income 86,469 70,036 57,838 51,654 40,285 Provision for loan losses (9,220 ) (45,991 ) (29,624 ) (23,896 ) (6,520 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 77,249 24,045 28,214 27,758 33,765 Non-interest income 23,237 16,599 13,826 9,620 7,251 Income from correspondent banking and bond sales division 32,806 24,889 32,696 17,916 1,412 Net gain on sale of securities available for sale 2,423 3,464 7,034 2,516 661 Bargain purchase gain, acquisition of institution 453 57,020 1,377 Gain on sale of bank branch office real estate 342 1,483 Impairment charge- core deposit intangible (1,200 ) Credit related expenses (11,206 ) (12,696 ) (6,278 ) (4,553 ) (1,006 ) Non-interest expense (110,774 ) (101,993 ) (87,047 ) (62,961 ) (38,930 ) Income (loss) before income taxes 14,530 11,328 (10,178 ) (10,904 ) 4,636 Income tax (expense) benefit (4,625 ) (3,419 ) 4,240 4,687 (1,215 ) Net income (loss) $ 9,905 $ 7,909 $ (5,938 ) $ (6,217 ) $ 3,421 PER COMMON SHARE DATA: Basic earnings (loss) per share $ 0.33 $ 0.26 $ (0.22 ) $ (0.47 ) $ 0.26 Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 0.33 $ 0.26 $ (0.22 ) $ (0.47 ) $ 0.26 Common equity per common share outstanding $ 9.09 $ 8.74 $ 8.41 $ 8.90 $ 12.22 Tangible common equity per common share outstanding $ 7.36 $ 7.30 $ 7.01 $ 7.53 $ 9.64 Dividends per common share $ 0.04 $ 0.04 $ 0.04 $ 0.07 $ 0.16 Actual shares outstanding 30,079,767 30,055,499 30,004,761 25,773,229 12,474,315 Weighted average common shares outstanding 30,073,959 30,034,573 27,608,211 17,905,042 12,452,375 Diluted weighted average common shares outstanding 30,141,863 30,039,187 27,608,211 17,905,042 12,585,036 BALANCE SHEET DATA: Assets $ 2,363,240 $ 2,284,459 $ 2,062,924 $ 1,751,299 $ 1,333,143 Total loans 1,435,863 1,283,766 1,128,955 959,021 892,001 Allowance for loan losses 26,682 27,944 26,267 23,289 13,335 Total deposits 1,997,232 1,919,789 1,685,594 1,305,036 993,800 Short-term borrowings 57,724 69,276 97,284 195,501 141,183 Corporate debentures 16,970 16,945 12,500 12,500 12,500 Preferred stockholders equity 26,787 Common stockholders equity 273,531 262,633 252,249 229,410 152,378 Total stockholders equity 273,531 262,633 252,249 229,410 179,165 Tangible capital 221,300 219,395 210,293 194,148 147,099 Goodwill 44,924 38,035 38,035 32,840 28,118 Core deposit intangible (CDI) 5,944 5,203 3,921 2,422 3,948 Trust intangible 1,363 Average total assets 2,445,902 2,176,571 1,935,495 1,771,034 1,238,005 Average loans 1,451,492 1,216,086 1,023,597 923,080 856,260 Average interest earning assets 2,070,990 1,914,812 1,734,746 1,628,798 1,108,180 Average deposits 2,062,682 1,800,998 1,517,302 1,254,169 975,352 Average interest bearing deposits 1,555,755 1,407,942 1,214,435 1,047,436 823,121 Average interest bearing liabilities 1,652,460 1,512,898 1,369,417 1,346,051 923,591 Average total stockholders equity 269,282 253,398 243,063 206,914 154,521 28 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Selected Consolidated Financial Data continued For the twelve month period ending or as of December 31 (Dollars in thousands except for share and per share data) 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 SELECTED FINANCIAL RATIOS: Return on average assets 0.40 % 0.36 % (0.31 %) (0.35 %) 0.28 % Return on average equity 3.68 % 3.12 % (2.44 %) (3.00 %) 2.21 % Dividend payout 12 % 15 % na na 58 % Efficiency ratio (1) 77 % 84 % 82 % 78 % 77 % Efficiency ratio, excluding correspondent (2) 77 % 84 % 86 % 85 % 77 % Net interest margin, tax equivalent basis (3) 4.24 % 3.72 % 3.38 % 3.22 % 3.70 % Net interest spread, tax equivalent basis (4) 4.14 % 3.55 % 3.12 % 2.92 % 3.19 % CAPITAL RATIOS: Tier 1 leverage ratio 9.91 % 10.49 % 10.33 % 11.36 % 12.59 % Risk-based capital Tier 1 16.63 % 17.79 % 18.01 % 17.99 % 16.17 % Total 17.89 % 19.05 % 19.28 % 19.25 % 17.43 % Tangible common equity ratio 9.58 % 9.79 % 10.41 % 11.31 % 9.25 % ASSET QUALITY RATIOS: Net charge-offs to average loans (5) 0.93 % 4.28 % 2.83 % 1.51 % 0.47 % Allowance to period end loans (5) 2.11 % 2.46 % 2.82 % 2.43 % 1.49 % Allowance for loan losses to non-performing loans 93 % 71 % 40 % 55 % 67 % Non-performing assets to total assets 1.41 % 2.16 % 3.81 % 3.05 % 1.86 % OTHER DATA: Banking locations 55 58 53 38 37 Full-time equivalent employees 689 655 602 478 399 (1) Efficiency ratio is non-interest expense (less non-recurring items, credit related expenses and intangible amortization) divided by the sum of the tax equivalent net interest income before the provision for loan losses plus non-interest income (less non-recurring items and FDIC indemnification income). (2) Efficiency ratio is same as (1) above excluding correspondent banking non-interest expense (including indirect expense allocations) from the numerator and excluding correspondent banking net interest income and non-interest income from the denominator. (3) Net interest margin is net interest income divided by total average earning assets. (4) Net interest spread is the difference between the average yield on earning assets and the average yield on average interest bearing liabilities. (5) Excludes loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements. 29 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Quarterly Financial Information The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, certain consolidated quarterly financial information. This information is derived from our unaudited financial statements which include, in the opinion of management, all normal recurring adjustments which management considers necessary for a fair presentation of the results for such periods. The sum of the four quarters of earnings per share may not equal the total earnings per share for the full year due to rounding. This information should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto included elsewhere in this document. The results for any quarter are not necessarily indicative of results for future periods. Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited) (Dollars in thousands except for per share data) 2012 2011 4Q 3Q 2Q 1Q 4Q 3Q 2Q 1Q Interest income $ 23,265 $ 23,608 $ 24,587 $ 23,490 $ 21,324 $ 19,837 $ 20,705 $ 20,377 Interest expense (1,726 ) (1,941 ) (2,304 ) (2,510 ) (2,757 ) (2,881 ) (3,166 ) (3,403 ) Net interest income 21,539 21,667 22,283 20,980 18,567 16,956 17,539 16,974 Provision for loan losses (2,169 ) (2,425 ) (1,894 ) (2,732 ) (18,065 ) (5,005 ) (11,645 ) (11,276 ) Net interest income after provision for loan losses 19,370 19,242 20,389 18,248 502 11,951 5,894 5,698 Non-interest income 5,870 7,054 5,849 4,806 2,921 4,041 4,339 5,298 Income from correspondent banking and bond sales division 6,450 8,606 9,966 7,784 6,661 7,999 5,759 4,470 Bargain purchase gain on acquisition 453 45,891 11,129 Gain on sales of securities available for sale 420 675 726 602 130 205 3,120 9 Non-interest expenses (28,530 ) (31,706 ) (31,658 ) (30,086 ) (34,724 ) (26,787 ) (26,529 ) (26,649 ) Income (loss) before income tax 3,580 3,871 5,272 1,807 21,381 (2,591 ) (7,417 ) (45 ) Income tax (expense) benefit (1,344 ) (1,229 ) (1,558 ) (494 ) (7,299 ) 599 3,071 210 Net income (loss) $ 2,236 $ 2,642 $ 3,714 $ 1,313 $ 14,082 $ (1,992 ) $ (4,346 ) $ 165 Basic earnings (loss) per common share $ 0.07 $ 0.09 $ 0.12 $ 0.04 $ 0.47 $ (0.07 ) $ (0.14 ) $ 0.01 Diluted earnings (loss) per common share $ 0.07 $ 0.09 $ 0.12 $ 0.04 $ 0.47 $ (0.07 ) $ (0.14 ) $ 0.01 30 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements °Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (All dollar amounts in this Item 7 are in thousands of dollars, except shares and per share data or when specifically identified.) Some of the statements in this report constitute forward-looking statements, within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These statements related to future events, other future financial performance or business strategies, and include statements containing terminology such as may, will, should, expects, scheduled, plans, intends, anticipates, believes, estimates, potential, or continue or the negative of such terms or other comparable terminology. Actual events or results may differ materially from the results anticipated in these forward looking statements, due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation: the effects of future economic conditions; governmental monetary and fiscal policies, as well as legislative and regulatory changes; the risks of changes in interest rates and the level and composition of deposits, loan demand, and the values of loan collateral; and the effects of competition from other commercial banks, thrifts, consumer finance companies, and other financial institutions operating in our market area and elsewhere. All forward looking statements attributable to our Company are expressly qualified in their entirety by these cautionary statements. We disclaim any intent or obligation to update these forward looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. There is no assurance that future results, levels of activity, performance or goals will be achieved. Our discussion and analysis of earnings and related financial data are presented herein to assist investors in understanding the financial condition of our Company at December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. This discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related footnotes of our Company presented elsewhere herein. Executive Summary Organizational structure Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of CenterState Banks, Inc. (the Parent Company, Company, Corporate, CenterState, Holding Company , CSFL , we or our ), and our wholly owned subsidiary bank ( CSB and the Bank ) and our non bank subsidiary R4ALL, Inc. ( R4ALL ). In December 2010 we merged our three national chartered banks together, with CSB as the surviving bank. In June of 2012 we merged our state charted bank, Valrico State Bank, into CSB. We currently have one subsidiary bank, and one non bank subsidiary, R4ALL. R4ALL has no employees and its sole purpose is to acquire and dispose of troubled assets from our only surviving subsidiary bank. The general administrative and recording keeping activities are performed by one of our employees, and the managing of the troubled assets and disposition thereof is managed by the special asset disposition team employed by CSB. At the Holding Company level, we perform functions that include strategic planning, merger and acquisition functions, investor relations, capital management, financial reporting, income tax management and reporting, loan review, internal audit, risk assessment and monitoring, and generally oversee and monitor the activities of our subsidiary bank. All of the operating activities associated with and related to the commercial and retail banking business, as well as the correspondent banking business, is performed and managed at the subsidiary bank level. 31 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements A condensed consolidating balance sheet at December 31, 2012 and a condensed consolidating statement of operations for the year ending December 31, 2012 are presented below. Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet At December 31, 2012 CSB R4ALL PARENT COMPANY ELIMINATIONS CONSOLIDATED Cash and due from banks $ 19,160 $ 62 $ 270 $ (332 ) $ 19,160 Federal funds sold and Federal Reserve deposits 117,588 117,588 Cash and cash equivalents 136,748 62 270 (332 ) 136,748 Investment securities available for sale, at fair value 425,758 425,758 Loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements 296,295 296,295 Loans, excluding those covered by FDIC loss share 1,137,403 2,165 1,139,568 Allowance for loan losses (26,426 ) (256 ) (26,682 ) Bank premises and equipment, net 97,476 478 97,954 Goodwill 44,924 44,924 Core deposit intangibles 5,944 5,944 OREO covered by FDIC loss share agreements 26,783 26,783 OREO not covered by FDIC loss share agreements 4,940 1,935 6,875 Investment in subsidiaries 286,637 (286,637 ) All other assets 205,924 1,368 3,781 (2,000 ) 209,073 Total assets $ 2,355,769 $ 5,274 $ 291,166 $ (288,969 ) $ 2,363,240 Deposits $ 1,997,564 $ $ $ (332 ) $ 1,997,232 Other borrowings 57,724 16,970 74,694 All other liabilities 27,790 (8,672 ) 665 (2,000 ) 17,783 Total stockholders equity 272,691 13,946 273,531 (286,637 ) 273,531 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 2,355,769 $ 5,274 $ 291,166 $ (288,969 ) $ 2,363,240 Condensed Consolidating Statement of Operations For the 12 month period ending December 31, 2012 CSB R4ALL PARENT COMPANY Eliminations Consolidated Interest income $ 94,924 $ 26 $ $ $ 94,950 Interest expense (7,646 ) (835 ) (8,481 ) Net interest income 87,278 26 (835 ) 86,469 Provision for loan losses (9,181 ) (39 ) (9,220 ) Net interest income after loan loss provision 78,097 (13 ) (835 ) 77,249 Non interest income 59,691 5 12,434 (12,869 ) 59,261 Non interest expense (119,026 ) (252 ) (3,142 ) 440 (121,980 ) Net income (loss) before income tax provision 18,762 (260 ) 8,457 (12,429 ) 14,530 Income tax (provision) benefit 6,171 (98 ) (1,448 ) 4,625 Net income (loss) $ 12,591 $ (162 ) $ 9,905 $ (12,429 ) $ 9,905 Through our subsidiary bank, we conduct commercial and retail banking business consisting of attracting deposits from the general public and applying those funds to the origination of commercial real estate loans, residential real estate loans, construction, development and land loans, and commercial loans and consumer loans. Most of our loans are secured by real estate located in Florida. Our profitability depends primarily on net interest income, which is the difference between interest income generated from interest-earning assets (i.e. loans and investments) less the interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities (i.e. customer deposits and borrowed funds). Net interest income is affected by the relative amounts of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and the interest rate earned and paid on these balances. Net interest income is dependent upon the interest rate spread which is the difference between the average yield earned on our interest-earning assets and the average rate paid on our interest-bearing liabilities. The 32 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements interest rate spread is impacted by interest rates, deposit flows, and loan demand. Additionally, our profitability is affected by such factors as the level of non-interest income and expenses, the provision for credit losses, and the effective tax rate. Non-interest income consists primarily of service fees on deposit accounts and related services, and also includes commissions earned on bond sales, brokering single family home loans, Trust services, sale of mutual funds, annuities and other non traditional and non insured investments. Non-interest expense consists of compensation, employee benefits, occupancy and equipment expenses, and other operating expenses. At December 31, 2012, our subsidiary bank operated through 55 bank branch locations in 18 counties in Central and Northeastern Florida as summarized in the table below: Citrus Indian River Orange Polk Hendry Lake Osceola Putnam Hernando Marion Pasco Sumter Hillsborough Okeechobee Seminole St. Lucie Volusia Duval Correspondent banking division We also operate a correspondent banking and bond sales division. The division is integrated with and part of our subsidiary bank, CSB, located in Winter Haven, Florida, although the majority of our bond salesmen, traders and operations personnel are physically housed in leased facilities located in Birmingham, Alabama and Atlanta, Georgia. The business lines of this division are primarily divided into three inter-related revenue generating activities. The first, and largest, revenue generator is commissions earned on fixed income security sales. The second category includes: (a) correspondent bank deposits (i.e., federal funds purchased) and (b) correspondent bank checking accounts. The third, revenue generating category, includes fees from safe-keeping activities, bond accounting services for correspondents, asset/liability consulting related activities, and correspondent clearing account services. The customer base includes small to medium size financial institutions primarily located in Florida, Alabama, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Virginia and West Virginia. FDIC assisted acquisitions and other branching activities In January of 2012 we acquired two failed financial institutions through FDIC assisted transactions. These acquisitions included a trust department, approximately $418 million of deposits and loans with a fair value as of the acquisition date of approximately $214 million. Substantially all the loans have loss share agreements beginning with the first dollar of loss. In total, these two acquisitions included 10 branch locations, all within our current geographical market footprint, or in the Jacksonville area, where we had recently hired a management team with the intention of expanding our footprint into Northeastern Florida. We have consolidated and closed 15 branches, merged our remaining subsidiary bank into our lead bank, CSB, and reduced our work force by 85 FTEs from its peak. We currently operate our 55 branch banking offices, all within Florida and our correspondent banking business with total FTEs ( full time equivalents ) of 689 as of December 31, 2012. Critical Accounting Policies Our accounting policies are integral to understanding the results reported. Accounting policies are described in detail in Note 1 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The critical accounting policies require management s judgment to ascertain the valuation of assets, liabilities, commitments and contingencies. We have established policies and control procedures that are intended to ensure valuation methods are well controlled and applied consistently from period to period. In addition, the policies and procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The following is a brief description of our current accounting policies involving significant management valuation judgments. 33 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Allowance for Loan Losses The allowance for loan losses represents our estimate of probable incurred losses inherent in the existing loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is increased by the provision for loan losses charged to expense and reduced by loans charged off, net of recoveries. The allowance for loan losses is determined based on our assessment of several factors: reviews and evaluation of individual loans, changes in the nature and volume of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and the related impact on specific borrowers and industry concentrations, historical loan loss experiences and the level of classified and nonperforming loans. Changes in the financial condition of individual borrowers, in economic conditions, in historical loss experience and in the condition of the various markets in which collateral may be sold may all affect the required level of the allowance for loan losses and the associated provision for loan losses. We use a standardized loan grading system which is integral to our risk assessment function related to lending. Loan officers assign a loan grade to their newly originated loans in accordance with the standard loan grades. Throughout the lending relationship, the loan officer is responsible for periodic reviews, and if warranted he/she will downgrade or upgrade a particular loan based on specific events and/or analyses. We use a loan grading system of 1 through 7. Grade 1 is excellent and grade 7 is doubtful. Loans graded 5 or higher are placed on a watch list each month end and reported to the bank s board of directors. Our loan review officers, who are independent of the lending function and are not employees of our subsidiary bank, periodically reviews loan portfolios and lending relationships. The review officer may disagree with the bank s grade on a particular loan and subsequently downgrade or upgrade such loan(s) based on his risk analysis. Although our credit review process has always been centralized, prior to 2011 our lending process was decentralized through multiple banking subsidiaries. Between early 2011 and June 2012, all of the banking subsidiaries were consolidated into our lead bank, forming a single banking subsidiary resulting in a centralized and consistent lending process. Beginning early in 2011, our Chief Credit Officer ( CCO ), our Chief Special Asset Disposition Manager ( CSPA ) and their teams are responsible for identifying and reporting all impaired loans, non-accrual loans, TDRs and OREO. They hold monthly meetings with our CEO, our subsidiary bank CEO, and a senior level accounting officer who along with the CCO and CSPA is ultimately responsible for preparing the Company s allowance for loan loss calculations each quarter. The Company s CFO and others also attend these meetings periodically. The CCO, CSPA and their teams make sure that all non-performing loans, subject to ASC 310, as well as OREO properties have a current appraisal (less than one year old) and that the asset is written down to 90% of the current appraisal, or less under certain circumstances, such as a listing price in the case of OREO, or a time value adjustment in the case of loans with appraisals approaching their one year life, and the related collateral is either in a type of category or in a market area with declining values. When these monthly meetings start, these teams have already evaluated their positions and have identified the course of action on each of the troubled assets listed. The purpose of the meetings is to allow the sharing of information and allow our CEO and the CEO of our lead subsidiary bank to review these evaluations with our CCO and CSPA, and either approve or modify their recommendations. We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The allowance consists of three components. The first component consists of amounts specifically reserved ( specific allowance ) for specific loans identified as impaired, as defined by FASB Accounting Standards Codification No. 310 ( ASC 310 ). Impaired loans are those loans that management has estimated will not repay as agreed upon. Each of these loans is required to have a written analysis supporting the amount of specific reserve allocated to the particular loan, if any. That is to say, a loan may be impaired (i.e. not expected to repay as agreed), but may be sufficiently collateralized such that we expect to recover all principal and interest eventually, and therefore no specific reserve is warranted. The second component is a general reserve ( general allowance ) on all of the Company s loans other than those identified as impaired. We group these loans into categories with similar characteristics and then apply a loss factor to each group which is derived from our historical loss factor for that category adjusted for current internal and external environmental factors, as well as for certain loan grading factors. 34 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The third component consists of amounts reserved for purchased credit-impaired loans. On a quarterly basis, the Company updates the amount of loan principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected, incorporating assumptions regarding default rates, loss severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that are reflective of current market conditions. Probable decreases in expected loan principal cash flows trigger the recognition of impairment, which is then measured as the present value of the expected principal loss plus any related foregone interest cash flows discounted at the pool s effective interest rate. Impairments that occur after the acquisition date are recognized through the provision for loan losses. Probable and significant increases in expected principal cash flows would first reverse any previously recorded allowance for loan losses; any remaining increases are recognized prospectively as interest income. The impacts of (i) prepayments, (ii) changes in variable interest rates, and (iii) any other changes in the timing of expected cash flows are recognized prospectively as adjustments to interest income. Disposals of loans, which may include sales of loans, receipt of payments in full by the borrower, or foreclosure, result in removal of the loan from the purchased credit impaired portfolio. The aggregate of these three components results in our total allowance for loan losses. Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill resulting from business combinations prior to January 1, 2009 represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill resulting from business combinations after January 1, 2009, is generally determined as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, plus the fair value of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, over the fair value of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and intangible assets acquired in a purchase business combination and determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but tested for impairment at least annually. We have selected November 30 as the date to perform the annual impairment test. Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values. Goodwill is the only intangible asset with an indefinite life on our balance sheet. We have a $45 million goodwill asset on our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2012. Other intangible assets consist of core deposit intangible and trust intangible assets arising from whole bank and branch acquisitions. They are initially measured at fair value and then amortized on an accelerated method over their estimated useful lives, generally 10 years. Goodwill and intangible assets are described further in Note 9 of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Income Taxes We determine our income tax expense based on management s judgments and estimates regarding permanent differences in the treatment of specific items of income and expense for financial statement and income tax purposes. These permanent differences result in an effective tax rate, which differs from the federal statutory rate. In addition, we recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities, recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition, based on management s judgment and estimates regarding timing differences in the recognition of income and expenses for financial statement and income tax purposes. We must also assess the likelihood that any deferred tax assets will be realized through the reduction or refund of taxes in future periods and establish a valuation allowance for those assets for which recovery is not more likely than not. In making this assessment, management must make judgments and estimates regarding the ability to realize the asset through carryback to taxable income in prior years, the future reversal of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income, and the possible application of future tax planning strategies. Management believes that it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets included in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition will be fully realized, although there is no guarantee that those assets will be recognizable in future periods. We have a net deferred tax liability of $1.9 million in our consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2012. For additional discussion of income taxes, see Notes 1 and 16 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 35 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Purchased Credit-Impaired Loans We account for acquisitions under the purchase accounting method. All identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at fair value. We review each loan or loan pool acquired to determine whether there is evidence of a deterioration in credit quality since inception and if it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due under the contractual loan agreements. We consider expected prepayments and estimated cash flows including principal and interest payments at the date of acquisition. The amount in excess of the estimated future cash flows is not accreted into earnings. The amount in excess of the estimated future cash flows over the book value of the loan is accreted into interest income over the remaining life of the loan (accretable yield). The Company records these loans on the acquisition date at their net realizable value. Thus, an allowance for estimated future losses is not established on the acquisition date. We refine our estimates of the fair value of loans acquired for up to one year from the date of acquisition. Subsequent to the date of acquisition, we update the expected future cash flows on loans acquired on a quarterly basis. Losses or a reduction in cash flow which arise subsequent to the date of acquisition are reflected as a charge through the provision for loan losses. An increase in the expected cash flows adjusts the level of the accretable yield recognized on a prospective basis over the remaining life of the loan. FDIC Loss Share Receivable We have entered into agreements with the FDIC for reimbursement of losses within acquired loan portfolios. The FDIC loss share receivable is recorded at fair value on the date of acquisition based upon the expected reimbursements to be received from the FDIC adjusted by a discount rate which reflects counter party credit risk and other uncertainties. Changes in the underlying credit quality of the loans covered by the FDIC loss share receivable result in either an increase or a decrease in the FDIC loss share receivable. Deterioration in loan credit quality increases the FDIC loss share receivable; increases in credit quality decrease the FDIC loss share receivable. Proceeds received for reimbursement of incurred losses reduce the FDIC loss share receivable. 36 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012 AND DECEMBER 31, 2011. Net Income Our net income for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $9,905 or $0.33 per share basic and diluted, compared to $7,909 or $0.26 per share basic and diluted for the year ended December 31, 2011. The primary reason for the increase was higher interest income resulting from the January 2012 acquisitions of Central Florida State Bank and First Guaranty Bank Trust, as well as lower credit cost. These and other factors contributing to our 2012 results are discussed below. Net Interest Income/Margin Net interest income consists of interest income generated by earning assets, less interest expense. Net interest income increased $16,433, or 23% to $86,469 during the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $70,036 for the same period in 2011. The increase was the result of a $12,707 increase in interest income plus a $3,726 decrease in interest expense. Interest earning assets averaged $2,070,990 during the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to $1,914,812 for the same period in 2011, an increase of $156,178, or 8.2%. The yield on average interest earning assets increased 28 basis points ( bps ) to 4.58% (29 bps to 4.65% tax equivalent basis) during the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to 4.30% (4.36% tax equivalent basis) for the same period in 2011. The combined net effects of the $156,178 increase in average interest earning assets and the increase in yields on average interest earning assets resulted in the $12,707 ($12,833 tax equivalent basis) increase in interest income between the two years. Interest bearing liabilities averaged $1,652,460 during the year ended December 31, 2012 as compared to $1,512,898 for the same period in 2011, an increase of $139,562, or 9.2%. The cost of average interest bearing liabilities decreased 30 bps to 0.51% during the year ended December 31, 2012, compared to 0.81% for 2011. The combined net effects of the $139,562 increase in average interest bearing liabilities and the 30 bps decrease in cost of average interest bearing liabilities resulted in the $3,726 decrease in interest expense between the two years. See the tables Average Balances Yields Rates, and Analysis of Changes in Interest Income and Expenses below. 37 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Average Balances (8) Yields Rates Years Ended December 31, 2012 2011 Average Balance Interest Inc / Exp Average Rate Average Balance Interest Inc / Exp Average Rate ASSETS: Noncovered loans (1) (2) (7) $ 1,126,784 $ 58,696 5.21 % $ 1,035,496 $ 55,036 5.31 % Covered loans (9) 324,708 23,542 7.25 % 180,590 11,396 6.31 % Securities available for sale taxable 458,946 11,297 2.46 % 492,666 14,296 2.90 % Securities available for sale tax exempt (7) 39,183 2,120 5.41 % 35,727 2,100 5.88 % Federal funds sold and other 121,369 638 0.53 % 170,333 632 0.37 % TOTAL INTEREST EARNING ASSETS $ 2,070,990 $ 96,293 4.65 % $ 1,914,812 $ 83,460 4.36 % Allowance for loan losses (26,872 ) (27,265 ) All other assets 401,784 289,024 TOTAL ASSETS $ 2,445,902 $ 2,176,571 LIABILITIES STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Deposits: Now $ 410,384 $ 457 0.11 % $ 313,178 $ 665 0.21 % Money market 331,449 730 0.22 % 263,089 899 0.34 % Savings 239,147 266 0.11 % 208,254 562 0.27 % Time deposits 574,775 6,076 1.06 % 623,421 9,373 1.50 % Repurchase agreements 21,388 86 0.40 % 15,949 84 0.53 % Federal funds purchased 53,803 28 0.05 % 70,940 48 0.07 % Other borrowed funds (3) 4,556 201 4.41 % 5,012 127 2.54 % Corporate debenture (4) 16,958 637 3.76 % 13,055 449 3.43 % TOTAL INTEREST BEARING LIABILITIES $ 1,652,460 8,481 0.51 % $ 1,512,898 12,207 0.81 % Demand deposits 506,927 393,056 Other liabilities 17,233 17,219 Total stockholders equity 269,282 253,398 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY $ 2,445,902 $ 2,176,571 NET INTEREST SPREAD (tax equivalent basis) (5) 4.14 % 3.55 % NET INTEREST INCOME (tax equivalent basis) $ 87,812 $ 71,253 NET INTEREST MARGIN (tax equivalent basis) (6) 4.24 % 3.72 % (1) Loan balances are net of deferred origination fees and costs. Non-accrual loans are included in total loan balances. (2) Interest income on average loans includes loan fee recognition of $511 and $362 for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. (3) Includes short-term (usually overnight) Federal Home Loan Bank advances and other short term borrowings. (4) Includes net amortization of origination costs and amortization of purchase accounting adjustment of $25 and $5 during year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. (5) Represents the average rate earned on interest earning assets minus the average rate paid on interest bearing liabilities. (6) Represents net interest income divided by total earning assets. (7) Interest income and rates include the effects of a tax equivalent adjustment using applicable statutory tax rates to adjust tax exempt investment income on tax exempt investment securities and loans to a fully taxable basis. (8) Averages balances are average daily balances. (9) Covered loans are loans purchased from the FDIC pursuant to assisted acquisitions of failed financial institutions, and are covered with respect to certain loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. Non-accrual loans : A loan is moved to nonaccrual status in accordance with the Company s policy typically after 90 days of non-payment, or less than 90 days of non-payment if management determines that the full timely collection of principal and interest becomes doubtful. Past due status is based on the contractual terms of the 38 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements loan. In all cases, loans are placed on nonaccrual or charged-off at an earlier date if collection of principal or interest is considered doubtful. Nonaccrual loans and loans past due 90 days still on accrual include both smaller balance homogeneous loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment and individually classified impaired loans. All interest accrued but not received for loans placed on nonaccrual, is reversed against interest income. Interest received on such loans is accounted for on the cash-basis or cost-recovery method, until qualifying for return to accrual. Loans are returned to accrual status when all the principal and interest amounts contractually due are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured. Analysis of Changes in Interest Income and Expenses Net Change Dec 31, 2012 versus 2011 Volume Rate Net Change INTEREST INCOME Loans (tax equivalent basis) $ 13,261 $ 2,545 $ 15,806 Securities available for sale taxable (932 ) (2,067 ) (2,999 ) Securities available for sale tax exempt 194 (174 ) 20 Federal funds sold and other (213 ) 219 6 TOTAL INTEREST INCOME (tax equivalent basis) $ 12,310 $ 523 $ 12,833 INTEREST EXPENSE Deposits NOW accounts $ 167 $ (374 ) $ (207 ) Money market accounts 199 (368 ) (169 ) Savings 73 (369 ) (296 ) Time deposits (686 ) (2,612 ) (3,298 ) Repurchase agreements 25 (23 ) 2 Federal funds purchased (10 ) (10 ) (20 ) Other borrowed funds (13 ) 86 73 Corporate debenture 147 42 189 TOTAL INTEREST EXPENSE $ (98 ) $ (3,628 ) $ (3,726 ) NET INTEREST INCOME (tax equivalent basis) $ 12,408 $ 4,151 $ 16,559 The table above details the components of the changes in net interest income for the last two years. For each major category of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, information is provided with respect to changes due to average volume and changes due to rates, with the changes in both volumes and rates allocated to these two categories based on the proportionate absolute changes in each category. Provision for Loan Losses The provision for loan losses (expense) decreased $36,771 to $9,220 during the year ending December 31, 2012 compared to $45,991 for the comparable period in 2011. Our policy is to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level sufficient to absorb probable incurred losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance is increased by the provision for loan losses, which is a charge to current period earnings, and is decreased by charge-offs, net of recoveries on prior loan charge-offs. Therefore, the provision for loan losses (Income Statement effect) is a residual of management s determination of allowance for loan losses (Balance Sheet approach). In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, we consider those levels maintained by conditions of individual borrowers, the historical loan loss experience, the general economic environment, the overall portfolio composition, and other information. As these factors change, the level of loan loss provision changes. Also, the loan loss provision in 2011 was elevated due to the sale of credit impaired loans in the wholesale market during 2011. Because of the large bargain purchase gains recognized pursuant to the acquisition of Federal Trust Bank and the acquisition of branches and loans from TD Bank during 2011, management determined that the Company had sufficient capital to allow for the loss related to the sale of these troubled loans in the wholesale market, and elected to purge the loans at discounts versus management time and energy working them through the foreclosure process and eventually selling the repossessed assets in future years. In addition, the put back period related to our Federal Trust Bank loans expired during the fourth quarter of 2012, at which time additional allowance for loan losses were added to the general allowance pursuant to this segment of performing loans, also effecting our loan loss provision. See credit quality and allowance for loan losses regarding the allowance for loan losses for additional information. 39 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Non-Interest Income Non-interest income for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $59,261 compared to $101,972 for the comparable period in 2011. This increase was the result of the following components listed in the table below 2012 2011 $ increase (decrease) % Increase (decrease) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 6,598 $ 6,316 $ 282 4.5 % Income from correspondent banking and bond sales division 32,806 24,889 7,917 31.8 % Correspondent banking division other fees 2,034 1,692 342 20.2 % Commissions from sale of mutual funds and annuities 2,598 1,801 797 44.3 % Debit card and ATM fees 4,023 2,852 1,171 41.1 % Loan related fees 553 747 (194 ) (26.0 %) BOLI income 1,436 967 469 48.5 % Trading securities revenue 690 485 205 42.3 % FDIC indemnification asset (amortization) (3,096 ) (503 ) (2,593 ) 515.5 % FDIC indemnification income 6,017 1,132 4,885 431.5 % Trust fees 1,162 1,162 n/a Other service charges and fees 1,564 1,110 454 40.9 % Gain on sale of securities 2,423 3,464 (1,041 ) (30.1 %) Subtotal 58,808 44,952 13,856 30.8 % Bargain purchase gain from acquisitions 453 57,020 (56,567 ) (99.2 %) Total non-interest income $ 59,261 $ 101,972 ($ 42,711 ) (41.9 %) As shown in the table above, the primary reasons for the decrease in non-interest income year to year was the bargain purchase gain from the January 2011 purchase of branches and loans from TD Bank, N.A. and the November 2011 purchase of Federal Trust Bank ( FTB ) from The Hartford Insurance Group, Inc. In both cases, selected performing loans were purchased at a 10% discount with regard to TD Bank, N.A. transaction and a 23% discount with regard to the FTB transaction, which was the primary reason for the bargain purchase gains in 2011. In 2012, the Company acquired Central Florida State Bank pursuant to an FDIC assisted transaction resulting in a bargain purchase gain of $453. The correspondent banking bond sales division is a volatile business. 2012 was its best year to date for bond sales. We expect significant future volatility in the fixed income business, and therefore do not consider their initial four year performance necessarily a trend. When future expected cash flows of the FDIC covered loans increase, this increase is accreted into interest income over the remaining life of the related loan pools. The FDIC indemnification asset ( IA ) represents the receivable from the FDIC for reimbursement of 80% of the expected losses in the covered pools. When management increases its expected loan cash flows, it decreases the expected reimbursement, or IA, by 80% of this amount. The decrease in expected reimbursements is amortized (negative accretion) over the remaining life of the related loss share term, and is included in the Company s non-interest income as a negative amount. At December 31, 2012, the Company s cumulative estimate of excess loan cash flows over the initial estimates is approximately $24,566. This additional amount is being accreted into interest income over the life of the related loan pools. Approximately 80% of this estimated additional cash flow, or $19,653, is being amortized (negative accretion) in non-interest income over a nine year period (the end of the last loss share term agreement), of which more than half will be amortized in less than three years. The net effect is that, as of December 31, 2012, the Company has estimated that it will improve its pre-tax income, over time, by approximately $4,913 ($24,566 estimated additional cash flows from covered loans minus $19,653 expected reduction in reimbursements from the FDIC). 40 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements When a FDIC covered OREO property is sold at a loss, the loss is included in non-interest expense as loss on sale of OREO, and 80% of the loss is recorded as FDIC indemnification income and included in non-interest income. Eighty percent of any related loan pool impairments also are reflected in this account. We acquired a Trust business pursuant to our January 2012 acquisition of a failed financial institution in an FDIC assisted transaction. The business has been producing approximately $300 of gross fees per quarter. Our BOLI income increased due the purchase of $10,000 additional BOLI during the first quarter of 2012. We sell securities available for sale from time to time pursuant to our asset/liability management process. We manage our balance sheet with the objectives of lowering our overall cost of deposits and freeing up additional capital. We do not know if we will sell additional securities available for sale, or to the extent of any potential sales. We do not know what future interest rates will be and therefore uncertain as what potential gains, if any, could be expected. 41 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Non-Interest Expense Non-interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2012 increased $7,291, or 6.4%, to $121,980, compared to $114,689 for 2011. The table below breaks down the individual components. 2012 2011 $ increase (decrease) % Increase (decrease) Employee salaries and wages $ 56,232 $ 47,150 $ 9,082 19.3 % Employee incentive/bonus compensation 3,938 2,830 1,108 39.2 % Employee stock based compensation 631 705 (74 ) (10.5 %) Employer 401K matching contributions 1,144 983 161 16.4 % Deferred compensation expense 501 460 41 8.9 % Health insurance and other employee benefits 3,985 3,215 770 24.0 % Payroll taxes 3,235 2,844 391 13.7 % Other employee related expenses 1,051 585 466 79.7 % Incremental direct cost of loan origination (779 ) (527 ) (252 ) 47.8 % Total salaries, wages and employee benefits 69,938 58,245 11,693 20.1 % (Gain) loss on sale of OREO (140 ) 732 (872 ) (119.1 %) Loss (gain) on sale of FDIC covered OREO 1,325 (187 ) 1,512 (808.6 %) Valuation write down of OREO 1,011 4,939 (3.928 ) (79.5 %) Valuation write down of FDIC covered OREO 3,247 1,812 1,435 79.2 % Loss on repossessed assets other than real estate 123 377 (254 ) (67.4 %) Loan put back expense 1,632 755 877 116.2 % Foreclosure and repossession related expenses 2,487 3,078 (591 ) (19.2 %) Foreclosure and repo expenses, FDIC (note 1) 1,521 1,190 331 27.8 % Total credit related fees 11,206 12,696 (1,490 ) (11.7 %) Occupancy expense 8,697 8,271 426 5.2 % Depreciation of premises and equipment 5,678 4,207 1,471 35.0 % Supplies, stationary and printing 1,124 1,285 (161 ) (12.5 %) Marketing expenses 2,564 2,791 (227 ) (8.1 %) Data processing expense 3,988 4,680 (692 ) (14.8 %) Legal, auditing and other professional fees 2,527 2,729 (202 ) (7.4 %) Bank regulatory related expenses 2,429 2,621 (192 ) (7.3 %) Postage and delivery 1,148 930 218 23.4 % ATM and debit card related expenses 1,207 1,631 (424 ) (26.0 %) CDI amortization 1,155 804 351 43.7 % Trust intangible amortization 217 217 n/a Impairment of bank property held for sale 614 614 n/a Internet and telephone banking 945 1,005 (60 ) (6.0 %) Operational write-offs and losses 697 553 144 26.0 % Correspondent accounts and Federal Reserve charges 527 471 56 11.9 % Conferences/Seminars/Education/Training 510 498 12 2.4 % Director fees 374 294 80 27.2 % Travel expenses 317 134 183 136.6 % Other expenses 3,404 3,148 256 8.1 % Subtotal 119,266 106,993 12,273 11.5 % Merger, acquisition and conversion related expenses 2,714 7,696 (4,982 ) (64.7 %) Total non-interest expense $ 121,980 $ 114,689 $ 7,291 6.4 % note 1: These are foreclosure related expenses related to FDIC covered assets, and are shown net of FDIC reimbursable amounts pursuant to FDIC loss share agreements. 42 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Excluding merger, acquisition and conversion related expenses identified above, total non-interest expense increased $12,273 or 11.5% year to year as shown in the above table. The table below removes credit related expenses and correspondent segment expenses, which is primarily compensation related and varies significantly with levels of bond sales volumes. 2012 2011 $ increase (decrease) % increase (decrease) Total non-interest expense $ 121,980 $ 114,689 $ 7,291 6.4 % Less: merger, acquisition, conversion, expenses (2,714 ) (7,696 ) (4,982 ) (64.7 %) Less: impairment bank property held for sale (614 ) 614 na Subtotal 118,652 106,993 11,659 10.9 % Less: credit related expenses (11,206 ) (12,696 ) (1,490 ) (11.7 %) Less: correspondent segment (28,168 ) (23,883 ) 4,285 17.9 % Non-interest expense, excluding credit cost, correspondent segment, and merger, acquisition and conversion related expenses, and impairment of bank property held for sale $ 79,278 $ 70,414 $ 8,864 12.6 % Excluding merger, acquisition and conversion related expense and impairment of bank property held for sale, and excluding credit cost and our correspondent division, the remaining non-interest expense approximates the operating expense of our core commercial and consumer banking segment. As shown in the table above, this expense increased approximately $8,864, or 12.6% year to year. The reasons for this increase include the following: In January 2012, we acquired two failed financial institutions which included 12 branches in the aggregate. The Company consolidated three branches in the first quarter of 2012 and another six branches in the second quarter of 2012. We incurred the related incremental expenses in 2012 for these branches until they closed. In addition, the two failed banks operated on two different core processing systems, which we were not converted to our core processing system until May and June of 2012, adding elevated cost in terms of data processing, personnel and other temporary inefficiencies above the normalized incremental operating expenses. In November 2011, we acquired five branches from The Hartford Insurance Group, Inc. The additional operating costs of these five branches were included in our 2011 expenses for two months versus all twelve months in 2012. In addition to closing 10 of the 12 branches we acquired in 2012, we also closed an additional branch in February 2012 and four more branches at the end of August 2012. In addition to consolidating and closing branches, and a reduction in workforce, we also initiated other cost efficiencies and revenue enhancements during the year. Our quarterly operating expenses decreased by approximately 9% in the fourth quarter compared to our high water mark in the second quarter of 2012. Income Tax Provision We recognized an income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2012 of $4,625 (an effective tax rate of 31.8%) compared to $3,419 (an effective tax rate of 30.2%) for the year ended December 31, 2011. The reason our effective tax rate was lower than our statutory tax rate in 2012 and 2011 is because we had tax exempt income in excess of non-deductible expenses thereby decreasing our taxable income below our book pre-tax income as recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. 43 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011 AND DECEMBER 31, 2010. Net Income Our net income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $7,909 or $0.26 per share basic and diluted, compared to net loss of $5,938 or $0.22 per share basic and diluted for the year ended December 31, 2010. The primary reason for the profitable year in 2011 was bargain purchase gains of $57,020 from our January 2011 acquisition of loans, deposits and branch offices from TD Bank, N.A. and our November 2011 acquisition of Federal Trust Bank from The Hartford Insurance Group, Inc. The other significant issue affecting our earnings continued to be credit cost. Total credit cost, including provisions for loan losses, for 2011 was approximately $58,687 compared to $35,902 reported in 2010. These and other factors contributing to our 2011 results are discussed below. Net Interest Income/Margin Net interest income consists of interest income generated by earning assets, less interest expense. Net interest income increased $12,198, or 22% to $70,036 during the year ended December 31, 2011 compared to $57,838 for the same period in 2010. The increase was the result of a $7,663 increase in interest income plus a $4,535 decrease in interest expense. Interest earning assets averaged $1,914,812 during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $1,734,746 for the same period in 2010, an increase of $180,066, or 10.4%. The yield on average interest earning assets was approximately the same for both year 2011 and 2010 (4.295% for 2011 and 4.299% for 2010). On a tax equivalent basis, the 2011 average yield increased 2 basis points ( bps ) to 4.36% compared to 4.34% for the same period in 2010. The combined net effects of the $180,066 increase in average interest earning assets and the change in yields on average interest earning assets resulted in the $7,663 ($8,122 tax equivalent basis) increase in interest income between the two years. Interest bearing liabilities averaged $1,512,898 during the year ended December 31, 2011 as compared to $1,369,417 for the same period in 2010, an increase of $143,481, or 10.5%. The cost of average interest bearing liabilities decreased 41bps to 0.81% during the year ended December 31, 2011, compared to 1.22% for 2010. The combined net effects of the $143,481 increase in average interest bearing liabilities and the 41bps decrease in cost of average interest bearing liabilities resulted in the $4,535 decrease in interest expense between the two years. See the tables Average Balances Yields Rates, and Analysis of Changes in Interest Income and Expenses below. 44 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Average Balances (8) Yields Rates Years Ended December 31, 2011 2010 Average Balance Interest Inc / Exp Average Rate Average Balance Interest Inc / Exp Average Rate ASSETS: Noncovered loans (1) (2) (7) $ 1,035,496 $ 55,036 5.31 % $ 940,198 $ 51,651 5.49 % Covered loans (9) 180,590 11,396 6.31 % 83,399 4,159 4.99 % Securities available for sale taxable 492,666 14,296 2.90 % 524,336 16,833 3.21 % Securities available for sale tax exempt (7) 35,727 2,100 5.88 % 34,852 2,069 5.94 % Federal funds sold and other 170,333 632 0.37 % 151,961 626 0.41 % TOTAL INTEREST EARNING ASSETS $ 1,914,812 $ 83,460 4.36 % $ 1,734,746 $ 75,338 4.34 % Allowance for loan losses (27,265 ) (25,578 ) All other assets 289,024 226,327 TOTAL ASSETS $ 2,176,571 $ 1,935,495 LIABILITIES STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY Deposits: Now $ 313,178 $ 665 0.21 % $ 217,083 $ 868 0.40 % Money market 263,089 899 0.34 % 190,778 1,486 0.78 % Savings 208,254 562 0.27 % 177,632 1,165 0.66 % Time deposits 623,421 9,373 1.50 % 628,942 12,203 1.94 % Repurchase agreements 15,949 84 0.53 % 21,254 89 0.42 % Federal funds purchased 70,940 48 0.07 % 105,344 107 0.10 % Other borrowed funds (3) 5,012 127 2.54 % 15,884 403 2.54 % Corporate debenture (4) 13,055 449 3.43 % 12,500 421 3.37 % TOTAL INTEREST BEARING LIABILITIES $ 1,512,898 12,207 0.81 % $ 1,369,417 16,742 1.22 % Demand deposits 393,056 302,867 Other liabilities 17,219 20,148 Total stockholders equity 253,398 243,063 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS EQUITY $ 2,176,571 $ 1,935,495 NET INTEREST SPREAD (tax equivalent basis) (5) 3.55 % 3.12 % NET INTEREST INCOME (tax equivalent basis) $ 71,253 $ 58,596 NET INTEREST MARGIN (tax equivalent basis) (6) 3.72 % 3.38 % (1) Loan balances are net of deferred origination fees and costs. Non-accrual loans are included in total loan balances. (2) Interest income on average loans includes loan fee recognition of $362 and $293 for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (3) Includes short-term (usually overnight) Federal Home Loan Bank advances. (4) Includes net amortization of origination costs and amortization of purchase accounting adjustment of $5 and $0 during year ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (5) Represents the average rate earned on interest earning assets minus the average rate paid on interest bearing liabilities. (6) Represents net interest income divided by total earning assets. (7) Interest income and rates include the effects of a tax equivalent adjustment using applicable statutory tax rates to adjust tax exempt investment income on tax exempt investment securities and loans to a fully taxable basis. (8) Averages balances are average daily balances. (9) Covered loans are loans purchased from the FDIC pursuant to assisted acquisitions of failed financial institutions, and are covered with respect to certain loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. Non-accrual loans : A loan is moved to nonaccrual status in accordance with the Company s policy typically after 90 days of non-payment, or less than 90 days of non-payment if management determines that the full timely collection of principal and interest becomes doubtful. Past due status is based on the contractual terms of the loan. In all cases, loans are placed on nonaccrual or charged-off at an earlier date if collection of principal or interest is considered doubtful. Nonaccrual loans and loans past due 90 days still on accrual include both smaller balance homogeneous loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment and individually classified impaired loans. All interest accrued but not received for loans placed on nonaccrual, is reversed against interest income. Interest received on such loans is accounted for on the cash-basis or cost-recovery method, until qualifying for return to accrual. Loans are returned to accrual status when all the principal and interest amounts contractually due are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured. 45 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Analysis of Changes in Interest Income and Expenses Net Change Dec 31, 2011 versus 2010 Volume Rate Net Change INTEREST INCOME Loans (tax equivalent basis) $ 10,515 $ 107 $ 10,622 Securities available for sale taxable (979 ) (1,557 ) (2,536 ) Securities available for sale tax exempt 52 (22 ) 30 Federal funds sold and other 72 (66 ) 6 TOTAL INTEREST INCOME (tax equivalent basis) $ 9,660 $ (1,538 ) $ 8,122 INTEREST EXPENSE Deposits NOW accounts $ 297 $ (501 ) $ (204 ) Money market accounts 436 (1,023 ) (587 ) Savings 174 (777 ) (603 ) Time deposits (106 ) (2,723 ) (2,829 ) Repurchase agreements (25 ) 20 (5 ) Federal funds purchased (29 ) (30 ) (59 ) Other borrowed funds (278 ) 3 (275 ) Corporate debenture 19 8 27 TOTAL INTEREST EXPENSE $ 488 $ (5,023 ) $ (4,535 ) NET INTEREST INCOME (tax equivalent basis) $ 9,172 $ 3,485 $ 12,657 The table above details the components of the changes in net interest income for the last two years. For each major category of interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, information is provided with respect to changes due to average volume and changes due to rates, with the changes in both volumes and rates allocated to these two categories based on the proportionate absolute changes in each category. Provision for Loan Losses The provision for loan losses (expense) increased $16,367 to $45,991 during the year ending December 31, 2011 compared to $29,624 for the comparable period in 2010. Starting in 2010, the Company took a liquidation approach to its problem assets. Troubled loans with unpaid legal balances and carrying balances of approximately $18,807 and $16,940, respectively, were sold for $8,579 during the third quarter of 2010. The portion of the provision for loan losses that represented the liquidation discount from this sale was approximately $8,361. Prior to this sale, the loans had been written down to fair value and the provision for loan losses increased accordingly. During the fourth quarter of 2011, troubled loans with unpaid legal balances and carrying balances of approximately $34,703 and $26,066, respectively, were sold for $14,095. The Company recorded approximately $11,971 of additional provision for loan losses representing the liquidation discounts as a result of this loan sale. Our policy is to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level sufficient to absorb probable incurred losses inherent in the loan portfolio. The allowance is increased by the provision for loan losses, which is a charge to current period earnings, and is decreased by charge-offs, net of recoveries on prior charge-offs. Therefore, the provision for loan losses (Income Statement effect) is a residual of management s determination of allowance for loan losses (Balance Sheet approach). In determining the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, we consider those levels maintained by conditions of individual borrowers, the historical loan loss experience, the general economic environment, the overall portfolio composition, and other information. As these factors change, the level of loan loss provision changes. See credit quality and allowance for loan losses regarding the allowance for loan losses for additional information. 46 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Non-Interest Income Non-interest income for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $101,972 compared to $54,933 for the comparable period in 2010. This increase was the result of the following components listed in the table below 2011 2010 $ increase (decrease) % increase (decrease) Service charges on deposit accounts $ 6,316 $ 6,873 $ (557 ) (8.1 %) Income from correspondent banking and bond sales division 24,889 32,696 (7,807 ) (23.9 %) Correspondent banking division other fees 1,692 996 696 69.9 % Commissions from sale of mutual funds and annuities 1,801 1,118 683 61.1 % Debit card and ATM fees 2,852 1,890 962 50.9 % Loan related fees 747 534 213 39.9 % BOLI income 967 774 193 24.9 % Trading securities revenue 485 622 (137 ) (22.0 %) FDIC indemnification asset (amortization)/accretion of discount rate (503 ) 598 (1,101 ) (184.1 %) FDIC indemnification income 1,132 1,132 n/a Other service charges and fees 1,110 421 689 163.7 % Gain on sale of securities 3,464 7,034 (3,570 ) (50.8 %) Subtotal 44,952 53,556 (8,604 ) (16.1 %) Bargain purchase gain from acquisitions 57,020 1,377 55,643 4040.9 % Total non-interest income $ 101,972 $ 54,933 $ 47,039 85.6 % As shown in the table above, the primary reasons for the increase in non-interest income year to year was the bargain purchase gain from the January 2011 purchase from TD Bank, N.A. and the November 2011 purchase from Hartford. In both cases, selected performing loans were purchased at a 10% discount with regard to TD Bank, N.A. transaction and a 23% discount with regard to the Hartford transaction, which was the primary reason for the bargain purchase gains. The correspondent banking bond sales volume and related income can experience a high degree of volatility from year to year based on various factors. The division had an outstanding year in 2010 most of which can be attributed to a record 2010 third quarter. The FDIC indemnification asset ( IA ) discount amortization is producing negative amortization due to adjustments in the FDIC covered loan portfolio. That is, to the extent current adjusted projected losses in the covered loan portfolio are less than originally projected losses, and therefore future loan accretion yields increase, the related projected reimbursements from the FDIC contemplated in the IA is less, which produces a negative income accretion in non-interest income. This event corresponds to the increase in yields in the FDIC covered loan portfolio. When a FDIC covered OREO property is sold at a loss, the loss is included in non-interest expense as loss on sale of OREO, and eighty percent of the loss is recorded as FDIC indemnification income and included in non-interest income. Eighty percent of any related loan pool impairments also are reflected in this account. We sell securities available for sale from time to time pursuant to our asset/liability management process. We manage our balance sheet with the objectives of lowering our overall cost of deposits and freeing up additional capital. 47 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Non-Interest Expense Non-interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 increased $21,364, or 22.9%, to $114,689, compared to $93,325 for 2010. The table below breaks down the individual components. 2011 2010 $ increase (decrease) % Increase (decrease) Employee salaries and wages $ 47,150 $ 44,985 $ 2,165 4.8 % Employee incentive/bonus compensation 2,830 3,620 (790 ) (21.8 %) Employee stock based compensation 705 699 6 0.9 % Employer 401K matching contributions 983 814 169 20.8 % Deferred compensation expense 460 342 118 34.5 % Health insurance and other employee benefits 3,215 2,208 1,007 45.6 % Payroll taxes 2,844 2,373 471 19.8 % Other employee related expenses 585 594 (9 ) (1.5 %) Incremental direct cost of loan origination (527 ) (602 ) 75 (12.5 %) Total salaries, wages and employee benefits 58,245 55,033 3,212 5.8 % Loss (gain) on sale of OREO 732 853 (121 ) (14.2 %) (Gain) loss on sale of FDIC covered OREO (187 ) (97 ) (90 ) 92.8 % Valuation write down of OREO 4,939 2,951 1,988 67.4 % Valuation write down of FDIC covered OREO 1,812 1,812 na Loss on repossessed assets other than real estate 377 458 (81 ) (17.7 %) Loan put back expense 755 755 na Foreclosure and repossession related expenses 3,078 2,113 965 45.7 % Foreclosure and repo expenses, FDIC (note 1) 1,190 1,190 na Total credit related fees 12,696 6,278 6,418 102.2 % Occupancy expense 8,271 6,652 1,619 24.3 % Depreciation of premises and equipment 4,207 3,350 857 25.6 % Supplies, stationary and printing 1,285 1,091 194 17.8 % Marketing expenses 2,791 2,498 293 11.7 % Data processing expense 4,680 2,789 1,891 67.8 % Legal, auditing and other professional fees 2,729 2,995 (266 ) (8.9 %) Bank regulatory related expenses 2,621 2,989 (368 ) (12.3 %) Postage and delivery 930 735 195 26.5 % ATM and debit card related expenses 1,631 1,298 333 25.7 % CDI amortization 804 519 285 54.9 % Internet and telephone banking 1,005 679 326 48.0 % Operational write-offs and losses 553 920 (367 ) (39.9 %) Correspondent accounts and Federal Reserve charges 471 348 123 35.3 % Conferences/Seminars/Education/Training 498 807 (309 ) (38.3 %) Director fees 294 368 (74 ) (20.1 %) Travel expenses 134 561 (427 ) (76.1 %) Other expenses 3,148 2,646 502 19.0 % Subtotal 106,993 92,556 14,437 15.6 % Merger, acquisition and conversion related expenses 7,696 769 6,927 900.8 % Total non-interest expense $ 114,689 $ 93,325 $ 21,364 22.9 % note 1: These are foreclosure related expenses related to FDIC covered assets, and are shown net of FDIC reimbursable amounts pursuant to FDIC loss share agreements. 48 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Overall, the largest item affecting our non interest expense in 2011 was merger, acquisition and conversion related expenses. Most of this expense relates to the Federal Trust Bank acquisition from Hartford. Included in the amount received from Hartford was a third party data processing termination fee of $2,909, severance payments of $2,052 and approximately $630 relating to attorney fees, accountant fees, valuation firm fees, investment banker fees and other related fees. The data processing termination fee and severance payments were paid by Hartford to CenterState, and as such were in the bargain purchase gain and shown in non interest expense. The remaining $2,105 relates to data processing conversion fees on the three failed banks purchased in 2010, but not converted to the Company s core system until the summer of 2011, data processing conversion fees related to the Company s State Bank subsidiary in preparation of an anticipated merger into the Company s lead bank during 2012, and data processing conversion fees related to the correspondent banking division. Excluding merger, acquisition and conversion related expenses discussed above, total non-interest expense increased $14,437 or 15.6% year to year as shown in the above table. The table below removes credit related expenses and correspondent segment expenses, which is primarily compensation related and varies significantly with levels of bond sales volumes. 2011 2010 $ increase (decrease) % increase (decrease) Total non-interest expense $ 114,689 $ 93,325 $ 21,364 22.9 % Less: merger, acquisition, conversion (7,696 ) (769 ) (6,927 ) 900.8 % Subtotal 106,993 92,556 14,437 15.6 % Less: credit related expenses (12,696 ) (6,278 ) (6,418 ) 102.2 % Less: correspondent segment (23,883 ) (28,837 ) 4,954 (17.2 %) Non-interest expense excluding credit cost, correspondent segment, merger related expenses $ 70,414 $ 57,441 $ 12,973 22.6 % Excluding merger, acquisition and conversion related expense, and excluding credit cost and our correspondent division, the remaining non-interest expense approximates the operating expense of our core commercial and consumer banking segment. As shown in the table above, this expense increased approximately $12,973, or 22.6% year to year. The reasons for this increase include the following: During July and August of 2010 we acquired three failed financial institutions which included nine branches in the aggregate. We incurred the related incremental expenses for approximately five months during 2010 versus the entire year for 2011. Each of these three banks operated on three different core processing systems, which we were not able to convert to our core processing system until June, July and August of 2011, adding elevated cost in terms of data processing, personnel and other temporary inefficiencies above the normalized incremental operating expenses. In January 2011 we acquired four bank branch offices, approximately $119 million of loans and assumed approximately $115 million of deposits from TD Bank, N.A. The related operating expenses associated with this business acquisition were included in our 2011 non-interest expense, but not in 2010. On November 1, 2011 we acquired five bank branch offices, approximately $157 million of loans and assumed approximately $198 million of deposits from Hartford. The related operating expenses associated with this business acquisition were not included in our 2010 non-interest expense. We hired a team of experienced seasoned bankers and opened a denovo branch office for them in Vero Beach, Florida during the spring of 2010. These additional expenses were outstanding all of 2011 but only for a portion of 2010. We hired a team of experienced seasoned bankers and opened a denovo branch office for them in Okeechobee, Florida during the summer of 2010. These additional expenses were outstanding all of 2011 but only for a portion of 2010. 49 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements In July of 2011, we hired a key banking executive in the Jacksonville, Florida market, Mr. Gil Pomar. Subsequently, he hired a small team operating from a loan production office, with the intent to open a branch office in 2012. In January 2012 we acquired our sixth and largest FDIC assisted acquisition of a failed financial institution with eight branches in Jacksonville. These additional expenses were not included in our 2010 non-interest expenses. We hired additional management and senior level staff including an economist, wealth management salesmen, managerial level staffing in loan operations, deposit operations, retail marketing, accounting and finance throughout 2010. These additional expenses were outstanding all of 2011 but only for a portion of 2010. Income Tax Provision (Benefit) We recognized an income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $3,419 (an effective tax rate of 30.2%) compared to an income tax benefit of $4,240 (an effective tax rate of 41.7%) for the year ended December 31, 2010. The reason our effective tax rate was lower than our statutory tax rate in 2011 is because we had tax exempt income in excess of non-deductible expenses thereby decreasing our taxable income below our book pre-tax income as recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. The reason our effective tax rate is higher than our statutory tax rate in 2010 is because we had substantial tax exempt income in excess of non-deductible expenses thereby increasing our taxable loss substantially above our book loss as recorded in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. The table below demonstrates this difference. Year 2011 Year 2010 income before provision for income taxes $ 11,328 $ (10,178 ) net tax exempt income (2,242 ) (1,090 ) taxable income (loss) 9,086 (11,268 ) statutory income tax rates 37.63 % 37.63 % income tax expense $ 3,419 $ (4,240 ) effective tax rates 30.2 % 41.7 % 50 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements COMPARISON OF BALANCE SHEETS AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 AND DECEMBER 31, 2011 Overview Our total assets grew by $78,781, or 3.4%, from $2,284,459 at December 31, 2011 to $2,363,240 at December 31, 2012. The increase was primarily due to the acquisition of two failed financial institutions pursuant to FDIC assisted transactions during January 2012. We acquired total assets of $429,727 and total deposits of $418,308 at fair value on the acquisition dates. We strategically decreased both acquired and legacy deposits, in particular time deposits, by repricing them downward to market interest rates when the opportunities presented themselves. On the other side of the balance sheet we primarily reduced securities available for sale to fund those liability reductions. Deflating our balance sheet in this manner allowed us to free up addition capital for other potential expansion opportunities. In addition, this contributed to our decrease in cost of deposits and cost of total interest bearing liabilities and improved our interest earning asset mix. Our loan to deposit ratio increased from 66.9% at December 31, 2011 to 71.9% at December 31, 2012. Investment securities available for sale We account for our securities at fair value and classify them as available for sale, except for trading securities. Unrealized holding gains and losses are included as a separate component of shareholders equity, net of the effect of deferred income taxes. If our management intends to sell or it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before recovery of our amortized cost basis, less any current period credit loss, the other than temporary impairment ( OTTI ) will be recognized in earnings equal to the entire difference between the investment s amortized cost basis and its fair value at the balance sheet date. If our management does not intend to sell the security and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost basis less any current period loss, the OTTI will be separated into the amount representing the credit loss and the amount related to all other factors. The amount of the total OTTI related to the credit loss is determined based on the present value of cash flows expected to be collected and is recognized in earnings. The amount of the total OTTI related to other factors is recognized in other comprehensive income, net of applicable taxes. The previous amortized cost basis less the OTTI recognized in earnings becomes the new amortized cost basis of the investment. The assessment of whether an OTTI decline exists involves a high degree of subjectivity and judgment and is based on the information available to management at a point in time. Our available for sale portfolio totaled $425,758 at December 31, 2012 and $591,164 at December 31, 2011, or 18% and 26%, respectively, of total assets. See the tables below for a summary of security type, maturity and average yield distributions. We use our security portfolio primarily as a tool to manage our balance sheet, manage our regulatory capital ratios, as a source of liquidity and a base from which to pledge assets for repurchase agreements and public deposits. When our liquidity position exceeds expected loan demand, other investments are considered as a secondary earnings alternative. Typically, we remain short-term in our decision to invest in certain securities. As these investments mature, they will be used to meet cash needs or will be reinvested to maintain a desired liquidity position. We have designated all of our securities as available for sale, except our trading portfolio, to provide flexibility, in case an immediate need for liquidity arises. We believe the composition of the portfolio offers flexibility in managing our liquidity position and interest rate sensitivity, without adversely impacting our regulatory capital levels. The available for sale portfolio is carried at fair market value and had a net unrealized gain of approximately $11,709 at December 31, 2012, compared to a net unrealized gain of approximately $9,160 at December 31, 2011. We invest primarily in direct obligations of the United States, obligations guaranteed as to the principal and interest by the United States, mortgage backed securities, municipal securities and obligations of government sponsored entities and agencies of the United States. The Federal Reserve Bank and the Federal Home Loan Bank also require equity investments to be maintained by us, which are shown separately in our consolidated balance sheet. 51 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The tables below summarize the maturity distribution of securities, weighted average yield by range of maturities, and distribution of securities for the periods provided. Yields are not presented on a tax equivalent basis in the table below. One year or less Over one through five years Over five through ten years Over ten years Total AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE $ % $ % $ % $ % $ % US government sponsored entities and agencies $ % $ 5 4.46 % $ 5,154 2.00 % $ 2,387 3.40 % $ 7,546 2.45 % State, county, and municipal 978 3.97 % 1,663 3.89 % 10,732 3.63 % 31,649 3.54 % 45,022 3.58 % Mortgage-backed securities 176 5.20 % 4,656 4.84 % 35,667 3.24 % 332,691 2.76 % 373,190 2.83 % Total $ 1,154 4.15 % $ 6,324 4.59 % $ 51.553 3.19 % $ 366,727 2.83 % $ 425,758 2.90 % Distribution of Investment Securities December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value Amortized Cost Fair Value US government sponsored entities and agencies $ 7,465 $ 7,546 $ 78,455 $ 78,877 $ 113,183 $ 113,416 State, county, and municipal 364,014 373,190 39,312 41,293 34,079 33,253 Mortgage-backed securities 42,570 45,022 464,237 470,994 348,990 354,258 Total $ 414,049 $ 425,758 $ 582,004 $ 591,164 $ 496,252 $ 500,927 Beginning in 2009, we maintain a trading securities portfolio. For this portfolio, realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in trading securities revenue, a component of non interest income in our Consolidated Statement of Operations. Securities purchased for this portfolio have primarily been municipal securities and are held for short periods of time. This activity was initiated to take advantage of market opportunities, when presented, for short term revenue gains. The table below summarizes our trading activity during the years presented. 2012 2011 Beginning balance $ $ 2,225 Purchases 367,105 249,430 Proceeds from sales (362,747 ) (252,140 ) Net realized gain on sales 715 485 Mark-to-market adjustment (25 ) Ending balance $ 5,048 $ Loans Lending-related income is the most important component of our net interest income and is a major contributor to profitability. The loan portfolio is the largest component of earning assets, and it therefore generates the largest portion of revenues. The absolute volume of loans and the volume of loans as a percentage of earning assets is an important determinant of net interest margin as loans are expected to produce higher yields than securities and other earning assets. Average loans during the year ended December 31, 2012, were $1,451,492, or 70% of average earning assets, as compared to $1,216,086, or 64% of average earning assets, for the year ending December 31, 2011. Total loans at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were $1,435,863 and $1,283,766, respectively, an increase of $152,097, or 11.8%. Most of this net increase is a result of our two acquisitions during January 2012. This also represents a loan to total asset ratio of 61% and 56% and a loan to deposit ratio of 72% and 67%, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Approximately 20.6% of our total loans, or $296,295, is covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements related to the acquisition of three failed financial institutions during the third quarter of 2010 and two during the first quarter of 2012. Pursuant to the terms of the loss sharing agreements, the FDIC is obligated to reimburse us for 80% of 52 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements losses with respect to the covered loans beginning with the first dollar of loss incurred, subject to the terms of the agreements. We will reimburse the FDIC for its share of recoveries with respect to the covered loans. The loss sharing agreements applicable to single family residential mortgage loans provide for FDIC loss sharing and our reimbursement to the FDIC for recoveries for ten years. The loss sharing agreements applicable to commercial loans provides for FDIC loss sharing for five years and our reimbursement to the FDIC for a total of eight years for recoveries. Of the 79.4% of our loans, or $1,139,568 not covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements, approximately 85% are collateralized by real estate, 11% are commercial non real estate loans and the remaining 4% are consumer and other non real estate loans. The loans collateralized by real estate are further delineated as follows. Residential real estate loans : These are single family home loans originated within our local market areas by employee loan officers or purchased from TD Bank, N.A. and The Hartford Insurance Group with two and one year put back options that expired on January 20, 2013 and November 1, 2012, respectively. We do not use loan brokers to originate loans for our own portfolio, nor do we acquire loans outside of our geographical markets. The size of this portfolio is $428,554 representing approximately 38% of our total loans, excluding those covered by FDIC loss share agreements. Within this category there are approximately $9,993 non performing (non-accrual) loans (79 loans) as of December 31, 2012. Commercial real estate loans : This is the largest category ($480,494) of our loan portfolio representing approximately 42% of our total loans, excluding those covered by FDIC loss share agreements. This category, along with commercial non real estate lending, is our primary business. There is no significant concentration by type of property in this category but there is a geographical concentration such that the properties are all located within Florida, primarily central Florida. The borrowers are a mix of professionals, doctors, lawyers, and other small business people. Approximately 55% of these loans are owner occupied. Within this category there are approximately $11,459 non performing (non-accrual) loans (33 loans) as of December 31, 2012. Land, development and construction loans : We have no construction or development loans with national builders. We do business with local builders and developers that have typically been long time customers. This category represents approximately 5% ($55,474) of our total loan portfolio. The majority of this amount is land development, lots, and other land loans. Approximately $2,032 of loans in this category are non performing (non-accrual) loans (22 loans) as of December 31, 2012, of which substantially all are collateralized by residential building lots, commercial building lots, undeveloped land and vacant land both residential and commercial. Loan concentrations are considered to exist where there are amounts loaned to multiple borrowers engaged in similar activities, which collectively could be similarly impacted by economic or other conditions and when the total of such amounts would exceed 25% of total capital. Due to the lack of diversified industry and the relative proximity of markets served, we have concentrations in geographic regions as well as in types of loans funded. 53 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The tables below provide a summary of the loan portfolio composition and maturities for the periods provided below. Loan Portfolio Composition Types of Loans at December 31: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Loans not covered by FDIC loss share agreements Real estate loans: Residential $ 428,554 $ 405,923 $ 255,571 $ 251,634 $ 223,290 Commercial 480,494 447,459 410,162 438,540 434,488 Land, development and construction 55,474 89,517 109,380 115,937 92,475 Total real estate loans 964,522 942,899 775,113 806,111 750,253 Commercial 124,225 126,064 100,906 98,273 80,523 Consumer and other loans 51,279 51,391 55,379 55,376 61,939 Total loans gross 1,140,026 1,120,354 931,398 959,760 892,715 Less: unearned fees/costs (458 ) (639 ) (728 ) (739 ) (714 ) Total loans not covered by FDIC loss share agreements 1,139,568 1,119,715 930,670 959,021 892,001 Loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements Real estate loans: Residential 142,480 99,270 110,586 Commercial 134,413 54,184 68,286 Land, development and construction 13,259 8,231 13,653 Total real estate loans 290,152 161,685 192,525 Commercial 6,143 2,366 5,760 Total loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements 296,295 164,051 198,285 Total loans $ 1,435,863 $ 1,283,766 $ 1,128,955 $ 959,021 $ 892,001 The repayment of loans is a source of additional liquidity for us. The following table sets forth the loans maturing within specific intervals at December 31, 2012, excluding unearned net fees and costs. Loan Maturity Schedule December 31, 2012 0 12 Months 1 5 Years Over 5 Years Total All loans other than construction, development, land $ 224,980 $ 417,497 $ 725,111 $ 1,367,588 Real estate land, development and construction 24,086 22,480 22,167 68,733 Total $ 249,066 $ 439,977 $ 747,278 $ 1,436,321 Fixed interest rate $ 132,961 $ 352,819 $ 236,079 $ 721,859 Variable interest rate 116,105 87,158 511,199 714,462 Total $ 249,066 $ 439,977 $ 747,278 $ 1,436,321 The information presented in the above table is based upon the contractual maturities of the individual loans, including loans which may be subject to renewal at their contractual maturity. Renewal of such loans is subject to review and credit approval, as well as modification of terms upon their maturity. Consequently, management believes this treatment presents fairly the maturity structure of the loan portfolio. See Liquidity and Market Risk Management for a discussion regarding the repricing structure of the loan portfolio. Credit Quality and Allowance for Loan Losses We maintain an allowance for loan losses that we believe is adequate to absorb probable incurred losses inherent in our loan portfolio. The allowance is increased by the provision for loan losses, which is a charge to current period earnings and decreased by loan charge-offs net of recoveries of prior period loan charge-offs. Loans are charged against the allowance when management believes collection of the principal is unlikely. 54 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The allowance consists of three components. The first component consists of amounts reserved for impaired loans, as defined by ASC 310. Impaired loans are those loans that management has estimated will not repay as agreed pursuant to the loan contract. Each of these loans is required to have a written analysis supporting the amount of specific reserve allocated to the particular loan, if any. That is to say, a loan may be impaired (i.e. not expected to repay as agreed), but may be sufficiently collateralized such that we expect to recover all principle and interest eventually, and therefore no specific reserve is warranted. The second component is a general reserve on all of our loans other than those identified as impaired and is based on historical loss experience adjusted for current factors. The historical loss experience is determined by portfolio segment and is based on the actual loss history experienced over the most recent two years. This actual loss experience is supplemented with other economic factors based on the risks present for each portfolio segment. The following portfolio segments have been identified: Residential real estate Commercial real estate Construction and land development Commercial and industrial (not collateralized by real estate) Consumer (not collateralized by real estate) Loans acquired through the Federal Trust Bank ( FTB ) acquisition The historical loss factors for each portfolio segment is adjusted for current internal and external environmental factors, as well as for certain loan grading factors. The environmental factors that we consider are listed below. We consider changes in the levels of and trends in past due loans, non-accrual loans and impaired loans, and the volume and severity of adversely classified or graded loans. Also, we consider changes in the value of underlying collateral for collateral-dependent loans. We consider levels of and trends in charge-offs and recoveries. We consider changes in the nature and volume of the portfolio and in the terms of loans. We consider changes in lending policies, procedures and practices, including changes in underwriting standards and collection, charge-off, and recovery practices not considered elsewhere in estimating credit losses. We also consider changes in the quality of our loan review system. We consider changes in the experience, ability, and depth of our lending management and other relevant staff. We consider changes in international, national, regional, and local economic and business conditions and developments that affect the collectibility of the portfolio, including the condition of various market segments (national and local economic trends and conditions). We consider the effect of other external factors such as competition and legal and regulatory requirements on the level of estimated credit losses in our existing portfolio (industry conditions). We consider the existence and effect of any concentrations of credit, and changes in the level of such concentrations. The third component consists of amounts reserved for purchased credit-impaired loans. On a quarterly basis, the Company updates the amount of loan principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected, incorporating assumptions regarding default rates, loss severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that are reflective of current market conditions. Probable decreases in expected loan principal cash flows 55 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements trigger the recognition of impairment, which is then measured as the present value of the expected principal loss plus any related foregone interest cash flows discounted at the pool s effective interest rate. Impairments that occur after the acquisition date are recognized through the provision for loan losses. Probable and significant increases in expected principal cash flows would first reverse any previously recorded allowance for loan losses; any remaining increases are recognized prospectively as interest income. The impacts of (i) prepayments, (ii) changes in variable interest rates, and (iii) any other changes in the timing of expected cash flows are recognized prospectively as adjustments to interest income. Disposals of loans, which may include sales of loans, receipt of payments in full by the borrower, or foreclosure, result in removal of the loan from the purchased credit impaired portfolio. The aggregate of these three components results in our total allowance for loan losses. In the table below we have shown the components, as discussed above, of our allowance for loan losses at December 31, 2012 and 2011. Dec 31, 2012 Dec 31, 2011 increase (decrease) loan balance ALLL balance % loan balance ALLL balance % loan balance ALLL balance Non impaired loans $ 900,804 $ 22,024 2.44 % $ 819,767 $ 24,281 2.96 % $ 81,037 $ (2,257 ) -52bps TD loans (note 1) 56,383 90,457 (34,074 ) FTB loans (note 2) 134,202 987 0.74 % 155,823 (21,621 ) 987 74bps Total non impaired loans 1,091,389 23,011 2.11 % 1,066,047 24,281 2.28 % 25,342 (1,270 ) -17bps Impaired loans 48,179 1,022 2.12 % 53,668 3,304 6.16 % (5,489 ) (2,282 ) -404bps Loans (note 3) 1,139,568 24,033 2.11 % 1,119,715 27,585 2.46 % 19,853 (3,552 ) -35bps Covered loans (note 4) 296,295 2,649 164,051 359 132,244 2,290 Total loans $ 1,435,863 $ 26,682 1.86 % $ 1,283,766 $ 27,944 2.18 % $ 152,097 ($ 1,262 ) -32bps Note 1: Performing loans purchased from TD Bank subject to a two year put back option ending on January 20, 2013, such that if any of these loans became 30 days past due or are adversely classified pursuant to bank regulatory guidelines, the Company had the option to put back the loans to TD Bank. The Company put back approximately $14,400 of loans between January 20, 2011 and December 31, 2012. Note 2: Performing loans purchased from The Hartford Insurance Group, Inc. ( Hartford ) wholly owned bank, Federal Trust Bank ( FTB ), subject to a one year put back option ending on November 1, 2012, such that if any of these loans became 30 days past due or are adversely classified pursuant to bank regulatory guidelines, the Company had the option to put back the loans to Hartford. The Company put back approximately $10,100 during the put back period. This group of loans is evaluated for estimated losses as a separate segment. Note 3: Total loans not covered by FDIC loss share agreements. Note 4: Loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements. Eighty percent of any losses in this portfolio will be reimbursed by the FDIC and recognized as FDIC indemnification income and included in non-interest income within the Company s condensed consolidated statement of operations. Six loan pools with an aggregate carrying value of $12,202 are impaired as of December 31, 2012, and have a specific allowance of $2,649. The aggregate carrying value of $12,262 represents approximately 69% of the underlying loan balances outstanding. The general loan loss allowance (non impaired loans) decreased by $1,270, or 17 bps to 2.11% of non-impaired loan balance outstanding as of the end of the current period as compared to 2.28% at the end of the previous period. This is a result of changes in historical charge off rates, changes in current environmental factors and changes in the loan portfolio mix. In addition, as of November 1, 2012 the put back option expired with regard to the performing loans purchased from Hartford. As such, we have evaluated this group of performing loans as a separate segment within our general allowance for loan losses and have estimated potential incurred losses within that segment as of December 31, 2012. There is no general loan loss allowance associated with the performing loans purchased from TD Bank for the reasons described in note 1above. The related put back option period associated with the TD Bank purchased loans expired on January 20, 2013. We expect to evaluate these performing loans as a separate segment of our general loan loss allowance as well, and expect to determine an estimate of potential incurred losses within that segment as of March 31, 2013. The specific loan loss allowance (impaired loans) is the aggregate of the results of individual analyses prepared for each one of the impaired loans not covered by an FDIC loss sharing agreement on a loan by loan basis. We recorded partial charge offs in lieu of specific allowance for a number of the impaired loans. The Company s impaired loans have been written down by $4,350 to $48,179 ($47,157 when the $1,022 specific allowance is considered) from their legal unpaid principal balance outstanding of $52,529. As such, in the aggregate, our total impaired loans have been written down to approximately 90% of their legal unpaid principal balance. 56 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Any losses in loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements, as described in note 4 above, are reimbursable from the FDIC to the extent of 80% of any losses. These loans are being accounted for pursuant to ASC Topic 310-30. On a quarterly basis, the Company updates the amount of loan principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected, incorporating assumptions regarding default rates, loss severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that are reflective of current market conditions. Probable decreases in expected loan principal cash flows trigger the recognition of impairment, which is then measured as the present value of the expected principal loss plus any related foregone interest cash flows discounted at the pool s effective interest rate. Impairments that occur after the acquisition date are recognized through the provision for loan losses. We believe our allowance for loan losses was adequate at December 31, 2012. However, we recognize that many factors can adversely impact various segments of the Company s market and customers, and therefore there is no assurance as to the amount of losses or probable losses which may develop in the future. The table below summarizes the changes in allowance for loan losses during the previous five years. 57 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The table below sets forth the activity in the allowance for loan losses for the periods presented. Activity in Allowance for Loan Losses 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Loans not covered by FDIC loss share agreements: Balance, beginning of year $ 27,585 $ 26,267 $ 23,289 $ 13,335 $ 10,828 Loans charged-off: Residential real estate (3,968 ) (9,306 ) (4,306 ) (3,442 ) (1,966 ) Commercial real estate (2,862 ) (11,179 ) (8,131 ) (3,001 ) (363 ) Construction land development (4,646 ) (7,717 ) (4,994 ) (6,457 ) (368 ) Commercial industrial (231 ) (1,971 ) (774 ) (830 ) (856 ) Consumer (807 ) (1,091 ) (523 ) (353 ) (636 ) Total loans charged-off (12,514 ) (31,264 ) (18,728 ) (14,083 ) (4,189 ) Loans charged-off loan sales: Residential real estate (3,019 ) Commercial real estate (11,153 ) (8,361 ) Construction land development (456 ) Commercial industrial (220 ) Total loans charged-off loan sales (14,848 ) (8,361 ) Recoveries on loans previously charged-off: Residential real estate 378 542 178 16 88 Commercial real estate 871 665 42 6 7 Construction land development 604 251 167 43 Commercial industrial 22 82 11 29 14 Consumer 157 258 45 47 67 Total loan recoveries 2,032 1,798 443 141 176 Net charge-offs (10,482 ) (44,314 ) (26,646 ) (13,942 ) (4,013 ) Provision for loan losses charged to expense 6,930 45,632 29,624 23,896 6,520 Allowance at end of period for loans not covered by FDIC loss share agreements $ 24,033 $ 27,585 $ 26,267 $ 23,289 $ 13,335 Loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements: Balance, beginning of year $ 359 $ $ $ $ Loans charged-off: Residential real estate Commercial real estate Construction land development (293 ) Commercial industrial Total loans charged-off (293 ) Recoveries on loans previously charged-off: Residential real estate Commercial real estate Construction land development 293 Commercial industrial Total loan recoveries 293 Net charge-offs Provision for loan losses charged to expense 2,290 359 Allowance at end of period for loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements $ 2,649 $ 359 $ $ $ Total allowance at end of period $ 26,682 $ 27,944 $ 26,267 $ 23,289 $ 13,335 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Loans at year end (note 1) $ 1,139,568 $ 1,119,715 $ 931,749 $ 959,021 $ 892,001 Average loans outstanding (note 1) $ 1,126,784 $ 1,035,496 $ 940,198 $ 923,080 $ 856,260 Net charge-offs (note 1) $ 10,482 $ 44,314 $ 26,646 $ 13,942 $ 4,013 Allowance for loan losses as percentage of year end loans (note 1) 2.11 % 2.46 % 2.82 % 2.43 % 1.49 % Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans outstanding (note 1) 0.93 % 4.28 % 2.83 % 1.51 % 0.47 % Note 1: Excludes loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements. 58 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Non-performing loans consist of non-accrual loans and loans past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest, excluding loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements. Non-performing assets consist of non-performing loans plus (a) OREO (i.e. real estate acquired through foreclosure or deed in lieu of foreclosure); (b) other repossessed assets that are not real estate; and (c) are not covered by FDIC loss share agreements. We place loans on non-accrual status when they are past due 90 days and management believes the borrower s financial condition, after giving consideration to economic conditions and collection efforts, is such that collection of interest is doubtful. When we place a loan on non-accrual status, interest accruals cease and uncollected interest is reversed and charged against current income. Subsequent collections reduce the principal balance of the loan until the loan is returned to accrual status or interest is recognized only to extent received in cash. The largest component of non-performing loans is non-accrual loans, which as of December 31, 2012 totaled $25,448 (184 loans), excluding loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements. This amount is further delineated by loan category as follows: Non-accrual loans at 12/31/12 Aggregate loan amounts % of Non-accrual by category Number of loans Residential real estate $ 9,993 39 % 79 Commercial real estate 11,459 45 % 33 Land, development, construction 2,032 8 % 22 Commercial 1,650 7 % 27 Consumer and other 314 1 % 23 Total $ 25,448 100 % 184 The other component of non-performing loans are loans past due greater than 90 days and still accruing interest. Loans which are past due greater than 90 days are placed on non-accrual status, unless they are both well secured and in the process of collection. At December 31, 2012, total OREO was $33,658. Of this amount, $26,783 was acquired pursuant to the acquisition of five failed financial institutions. The acquired OREO is covered by FDIC loss share agreements. Pursuant to the terms of the loss share agreements, the FDIC is obligated to reimburse the Company for 80% of losses with respect to the covered OREO beginning with the first dollar of loss incurred, subject to the terms of the agreements. The Company will reimburse the FDIC for its share of recoveries with respect to the covered OREO. The loss share agreements applicable to single family residential mortgage loans provide for FDIC loss share and our reimbursement to the FDIC for recoveries for ten years. The loss share agreements applicable to commercial loans provides for FDIC loss sharing for five years and our reimbursement to the FDIC for a total of eight years for recoveries. OREO not covered by FDIC loss share agreements was $6,875 at December 31, 2012, and is included in our non-performing assets ( NPA ). OREO is carried at the lower of cost or market less the estimated cost to sell. Further declines in real estate values can affect the market value of these assets. Any further decline in market value beyond its cost basis is recorded as a current expense in our Consolidated Statement of Operations and Comprehensive Income. The current carrying value represents approximately 40% of the unpaid legal balance of the related loan when the asset was repossessed. OREO is further delineated in the following table. (unaudited) Description of repossessed real estate (OREO) carrying amount at Dec 31, 2012 8 single family homes $ 834 35 residential building lots 1,233 13 commercial buildings 2,273 Land / various acreages 2,535 Total, excluding OREO covered by FDIC loss share agreements $ 6,875 59 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements At December 31, 2012 we had repossessed assets other than real estate with an aggregate estimated fair value of approximately $770. Interest income not recognized on non-accrual loans was approximately $1,080, $2,224 and $1,087 for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The table below summarizes non performing loans and assets for the periods provided. The increases in non-performing loans and non-performing assets during 2008, 2009 and 2010 are a reflection of the depressed real estate market in Florida during that time period. The decrease in 2011 and especially in 2012 is consistent with the stabilization and slight improvement in Florida s real market during the last year to eighteen months. Non Performing Loans and Non Performing Assets December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Non-accrual loans (Note 1) $ 25,448 $ 38,858 $ 62,553 $ 42,059 $ 19,863 Past due loans 90 days or more and still accruing interest (Note 1) 293 120 3,200 282 50 Total non-performing loans (Note 1) 25,741 38,978 65,753 42,341 19,913 Repossessed real estate ( OREO ) (Note 1) 6,875 8,712 12,239 10,196 4,494 Repossessed assets other than real estate (Note 1) 770 1,619 532 915 428 Total non-performing assets (Note 1) $ 33,386 $ 49,309 $ 78,524 $ 53,452 $ 24,835 Total non-performing loans as a percentage of total loans (Note 1) 2.26 % 3.48 % 7.06 % 4.42 % 2.23 % Total non-performing assets as a percentage of total assets (Note 1) 1.41 % 2.16 % 3.81 % 3.05 % 1.86 % Allowance for loan losses as a percentage of non-performing loans (Note 1) 93 % 71 % 40 % 55 % 67 % Note 1: Excludes loans, OREO and other repossessed assets covered by FDIC loss share agreements. Management considers a loan to be impaired when it is probable that we will not be repaid as agreed pursuant to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Once the loan has been identified as impaired, a written analysis is performed to determine if there is a potential for a loss. If it is probable that a loss may occur, a specific allowance, or a partial charge down, for that particular loan is then recognized. The loan is then placed on non-accrual status and included in non-performing loans. If the analysis indicates that a loss is not probable, then no specific allowance, or partial charge down, is recognized. If the loan is still accruing, it is not included in non-performing loans. Loans that are monitored for impairment pursuant to ASC 310 generally include commercial, commercial real estate, land, acquisition development of land, and construction loans greater than $500,000. Smaller homogeneous loans, such as single family first and second mortgages, consumer loans, and small business and commercial related loans are not generally subject to impairment monitoring pursuant to ASC 310, but are analyzed for potential losses based on historical loss factors, current environmental factors and to some extent loan grading. Interest income recognized on impaired loans was approximately $1,671, $1,517 and $2,330 for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The average recorded investment in impaired loans during 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $48,515, $74,502 and $82,695, respectively. In this current real estate environment it has become more common to restructure or modify the terms of certain loans under certain conditions. In certain circumstances it may be more beneficial to restructure the terms of a loan and work with the borrower for the benefit of both parties, versus forcing the property into foreclosure and having to dispose of it in an unfavorable real estate market. When we have modified the terms of a loan, we usually reduce the monthly payment and/or interest rate for generally twelve to 24 months. We have approximately $14,660 of troubled debt restructures ( TDRs ). Of this amount $8,841 are performing pursuant to their modified terms, and $5,819 are not performing and have been placed on non-accrual status and included in our non performing loans ( NPLs ). TDRs are included in our impaired loans, whether they are performing or not performing. Only non performing TDRs are included in our NPLs. The table below summarizes our impaired loans and TDRs for the periods provided. 60 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Impaired Loans and Troubled Debt Restructure ( TDRs ) December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Performing TDRs $ 8,841 $ 6,554 $ 10,591 $ 14,517 $ Non performing TDRs 5,819 5,807 11,731 11,982 Total TDRs $ 14,660 $ 12,361 $ 22,322 $ 26,499 $ Impaired loans that are not TDRs $ 33,519 $ 41,307 $ 64,655 $ 52,449 $ 24,191 Impaired loans that are TDRs 14,660 12,361 22,322 26,499 Recorded investment in impaired loans $ 48,179 $ 53,668 $ 86,977 $ 78,948 $ 24,191 Allowance for loan losses related to impaired loans $ 1,022 $ 3,304 $ 4,584 $ 4,612 $ 1,799 TDRs as of December 31, 2012 quantified by loan type classified separately as accrual (performing loans) and non-accrual (non-performing loans) are presented in the table below. TDRs Accruing Non-Accrual Total Real estate loans: Residential $ 6,446 $ 1,778 $ 8,224 Commercial 1,589 3,701 5,290 Construction, development, land 202 231 433 Total real estate loans 8,237 5,710 13,947 Commercial 315 5 320 Consumer and other 289 104 393 Total TDRs $ 8,841 $ 5,819 $ 14,660 Our policy is to return non-accrual TDR loans to accrual status when all the principal and interest amounts contractually due, pursuant to its modified terms, are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured. Our policy also considers the payment history of the borrower, but is not dependent upon a specific number of payments. Loans are modified to minimize loan losses when we believe the modification will improve the borrower s financial condition and ability to repay the loan. We typically do not forgive principal. We generally either reduce interest rates or decrease monthly payments for a temporary period of time and those reductions of cash flows are capitalized into the loan balance. We may also extend maturities, convert balloon loans to longer term amortizing loans, or vice versa, or change interest rates between variable and fixed rate. Each borrower and situation is unique and we try to accommodate the borrower and minimize the Company s potential losses. Approximately 60% of our TDRs are current pursuant to their modified terms, and about $5,819, or approximately 40% of our total TDRs are not performing pursuant to their modified terms. There does not appear to be any significant difference in success rates with one type of concession versus another. We are continually analyzing our loan portfolio in an effort to recognize and resolve our problem assets as quickly and efficiently as possible. While we believe we use the best information available at the time to make a determination with respect to the allowance for loan losses, we recognize that many factors can adversely impact various segments of our markets, and subsequent adjustments in the allowance may be necessary if future economic indications or other factors differ from the assumptions used in making the initial determination or if regulatory policies change. We continuously focus our attention on promptly identifying and providing for potential problem loans, as they arise. 61 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements The table below summarizes our accruing loans past due greater than 30 days and less than 90 days for the periods presented, excluding loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements. December 31 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 past due loans 30-89 days $ 7,422 $ 16,257 $ 18,249 $ 12,237 $ 19,346 as percentage of total loans 0.65 % 1.45 % 1.96 % 1.28 % 2.17 % Although the total allowance for loan losses is available to absorb losses from all loans, management allocates the allowance among loan portfolio categories for informational and regulatory reporting purposes. Regulatory examiners may require us to recognize additions to the allowance based upon the regulators judgments about the information available to them at the time of their examination, which may differ from our judgments about the allowance for loan losses. While no portion of the allowance is in any way restricted to any individual loan or group of loans, and the entire allowance is available to absorb losses from any and all loans, the following table summarizes our allocation of allowance for loan losses by loan category and loans in each category as a percentage of total loans, for the periods presented, excluding loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements. December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Real estate loans: Residential $ 6,831 28 % $ 6,700 24 % $ 7,704 27 % Commercial 8,272 35 % 8,825 32 % 8,587 44 % Land, development, construction 6,211 26 % 9,098 33 % 6,893 12 % Total real estate loans 21,314 89 % 24,623 89 % 23,184 83 % Commercial loans 1,745 7 % 1,984 7 % 2,182 11 % Consumer and other loans 974 4 % 978 4 % 896 6 % Unallocated 5 Total $ 24,033 100 % $ 27,585 100 % $ 26,267 100 % December 31, 2009 2008 Real estate loans: Residential $ 5,827 26 % $ 2,390 25 % Commercial 9,378 46 % 6,268 49 % Land, development, construction 4,882 12 % 2,058 10 % Total real estate loans 20,087 84 % 10,716 84 % Commercial loans 2,023 10 % 1,726 9 % Consumer and other loans 1,169 6 % 892 7 % Unallocated 10 1 Total $ 23,289 100 % $ 13,335 100 % Bank Premises and Equipment Bank premises and equipment was $97,954 at December 31, 2012 compared to $94,358 at December 31, 2011, an increase of $3,596 or 3.8%. This amount is the result of purchases, net of dispositions, and construction in process of $13,679 less $5,678 of depreciation expense, $804 carrying value of excess land sold, and $3,601 carrying value transfer of bank properties to held-for-sale. The bank properties were transferred at $2,987, the net realizable value, resulting in an impairment expense of $614. At December 31, 2012, we operated from 55 banking locations in 18 counties within Florida, primarily central and northeast Florida. We currently lease 10 of the 55 banking locations and own 45. In addition to our banking locations, we lease non-banking office space in Winter Haven, Florida for IT and operations purposes. We also lease office space in Birmingham, Alabama and in Atlanta, Georgia. Both are used by our correspondent banking division. 62 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements During 2012, we purchased and/or incurred construction costs for a total of 13 buildings costing approximately $7,656 including land. Our leasehold improvement and land improvement expenses were approximately $1,045. We also purchased computer equipment, furniture and equipment of approximately $4,978 excluding software purchases. Deposits Total deposits increased $77,443, or 4%, to $1,997,232 as of December 31, 2012, compared to $1,919,789 at December 31, 2011. We acquired approximately $418,308 of deposits during 2012 pursuant to the acquisitions of First Guaranty Bank Trust ( FGB ) and Central Florida State Bank ( CFSB ). We also acquired approximately $313,124 of deposits during 2011 pursuant to the acquisition transactions from TD Bank, N.A. and The Hartford Insurance Group, Inc. Our strategy has been to attract and grow relationships in our core deposit accounts, which we define as non time deposits, and not aggressively seek deposits based on pricing. The results are that time deposits have decreased during 2012 by $131,614 and as of December 31, 2012 represent 23.8% of our total deposits compared to 31.6% as of the prior year end. During the same time period, our core deposits have increased by $209,057 and as of December 31, 2012 represent 76.2% of our total deposits compared to 68.4% as of the prior year end. The number of core deposit accounts at December 31, 2012 was 106,621 compared to 96,699 at December 31, 2011, an increase of 9,922, or 10.3%. The tables below summarize selected deposit information for the periods indicated. December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Non time deposits $ 1,521,928 76.2 % $ 1,312,871 68.4 % $ 1,027,781 61.0 % Time deposits 475,304 23.8 % 606,918 31.6 % 657,813 39.0 % Total deposits $ 1,997,232 100 % $ 1,919,789 100 % $ 1,685,594 100 % Average deposit balance by type and average interest rates 2012 2011 2010 Average Balance Average Rate Average Balance Average Rate Average Balance Average Rate Non interest bearing demand deposits $ 506,927 % $ 393,056 % $ 302,867 % NOW accounts 410,384 0.11 % 313,178 0.21 % 217,083 0.40 % Money market accounts 331,449 0.22 % 263,089 0.34 % 190,778 0.78 % Savings accounts 239,147 0.11 % 208,254 0.27 % 177,632 0.66 % Time deposits 574,775 1.06 % 623,421 1.50 % 628,942 1.94 % Total $ 2,062,682 0.37 % $ 1,800,998 0.64 % $ 1,517,302 1.04 % Maturity of time deposits of $100,000 or more December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Three months or less $ 56,587 $ 121,960 $ 86,748 Three through six months 38,295 38,513 71,282 Six through twelve months 44,722 67,263 74,841 Over twelve months 106,102 115,656 158,198 Total $ 245,706 $ 343,392 $ 391,069 63 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Repurchase Agreements We enter into borrowing arrangements with retail business customers by agreements to repurchase ( repurchase agreements ) under which we pledge investment securities owned and under our control as collateral against the one-day borrowing arrangement. These arrangements are not transactions with investment bankers or brokerage firms, but rather, with several of our larger commercial customers who periodically have excess cash balances and do not want to keep those balances in non-interest bearing checking accounts. Because our Bank is not permitted to pay interest on commercial checking accounts, we offer an arrangement through a repurchase agreement whereby balances are transferred from a checking account into a repurchase agreement arrangement on which we will pay a daily adjustable interest rate of the federal fund rate minus an amount that traditionally ranged between 0.35% and 0.75%, but currently is a much smaller due to the low interest rate environment during 2012. The daily average balance of these short-term borrowing agreements for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, was approximately $21,388, $15,949 and $21,254, respectively. Interest expense for the same periods was approximately $86, $84 and $89, respectively, resulting in an average rate paid of 0.40%, 0.53% and 0.42% for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. The following table summarizes our repurchase agreements for the periods presented. Schedule of short-term borrowing (1) Maximum outstanding at any month end Average balance Average interest rate during the year Ending Balance Weighted Average interest rate at year end Year ended December 31, 2012 $ 24,989 $ 21,388 0.40 % $ 18,792 0.40 % 2011 $ 18,652 $ 15,949 0.53 % $ 14,652 0.47 % 2010 $ 25,367 $ 21,254 0.42 % $ 13,789 0.50 % (1) Consist of securities sold under agreements to repurchase Other borrowed funds From time to time we borrow on a short-term basis, usually overnight, either through Federal Home Loan Bank advances or Federal Funds Purchased. Included in Federal Funds Purchased are overnight deposits from correspondent banks. We began accepting correspondent bank deposits (classified as Federal Funds Purchased) in September 2008 pursuant to the initiation of our new correspondent banking division. At December 31, 2012 we had $38,932 overnight Federal Funds Purchased correspondent bank deposits. During the year, these deposits had a daily average balance of approximately $53,803. These accounts are included with other Federal Funds Purchased and Federal Home Loan Bank advances in the table below, which summarizes our other borrowings for the periods presented. For additional information refer to Notes 12 and 13 in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Schedule of short-term borrowing (1) Maximum outstanding at any month end Average balance Average interest rate during the year Ending Balance Weighted Average interest rate at year end Year ended December 31, 2012 $ 82,473 $ 53,803 0.05 % $ 38,932 0.05 % 2011 $ 98,211 $ 75,952 0.23 % $ 54,624 0.05 % 2010 $ 157,037 $ 121,228 0.42 % $ 83,495 0.52 % (1) Consist of Federal Home Loan Bank advances and Federal Funds Purchased Corporate debenture We formed CenterState Banks of Florida Statutory Trust I (the Trust ) for the purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. On September 22, 2003, we issued a floating rate corporate debenture in the amount of $10,000. The Trust used the proceeds from the issuance of a trust preferred security to acquire the corporate debenture of the 64 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Company. The trust preferred security essentially mirrors the corporate debenture, carrying a cumulative preferred dividend at a variable rate equal to the interest rate on the corporate debenture (three month LIBOR plus 305 basis points). The rate is subject to change quarterly. The rate in effect during the quarter ended December 31, 2012 was 3.41%. The corporate debenture and the trust preferred security each have 30-year lives. The trust preferred security and the corporate debenture are callable by the Company or the Trust, at their respective option, subject to prior approval by the Federal Reserve Board, if then required. The Company has treated the corporate debenture as Tier 1 capital up to the maximum amount allowed under the Federal Reserve guidelines for federal regulatory purposes. In September 2004, Valrico Bancorp Inc. ( VBI ) formed Valrico Capital Statutory Trust ( Valrico Trust ) for the purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. On September 9, 2004, VBI issued a floating rate corporate debenture in the amount of $2,500. The Trust used the proceeds from the issuance of a trust preferred security to acquire the corporate debenture. The trust preferred security essentially mirrors the corporate debenture, carrying a cumulative preferred dividend at a variable rate equal to the interest rate on the corporate debenture (three month LIBOR plus 270 basis points). The rate is subject to change quarterly. The rate in effect during the quarter that included December 31, 2012 was 3.01%. The corporate debenture and the trust preferred security each have 30-year lives. The trust preferred security and the corporate debenture are callable by the Company or the Valrico Trust, at their respective option, subject to prior approval by the Federal Reserve, if then required. On April 2, 2007, the Company acquired all the assets and assumed all the liabilities of VBI by merger, including VBI s corporate debenture and related trust preferred security discussed above. The Company has treated the corporate debenture as Tier 1 capital up to the maximum amount allowed under the Federal Reserve guidelines for federal regulatory purposes. In September 2003, Federal Trust Corporation ( FTC ) formed Federal Trust Statutory I ( FTC Trust ) for the purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. On September 17, 2003, FTC issued a floating rate corporate debenture in the amount of $5,000. The Trust used the proceeds from the issuance of a trust preferred security to acquire the corporate debenture. The trust preferred security essentially mirrors the corporate debenture, carrying a cumulative preferred dividend at a variable rate equal to the interest rate on the corporate debenture (three month LIBOR plus 295 basis points). The rate is subject to change quarterly. The rate in effect during the quarter that included December 31, 2012 was 3.34%. The corporate debenture and the trust preferred security each have 30-year lives. The trust preferred security and the corporate debenture are callable by the Company or the FTC Trust, at their respective option, subject to prior approval by the Federal Reserve, if then required. On November 1, 2011, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of FTC by merger, including FTC s corporate debenture and related trust preferred security discussed above. The Company has treated the corporate debenture as Tier 1 capital up to the maximum amount allowed under the Federal Reserve guidelines for federal regulatory purposes. Liquidity and Market Risk Management Market and public confidence in our financial strength and financial institutions in general will largely determine our access to appropriate levels of liquidity. This confidence is significantly dependent on our ability to maintain sound asset quality and appropriate levels of capital reserves. Liquidity is defined as the ability to meet anticipated customer demands for funds under credit commitments and deposit withdrawals at a reasonable cost and on a timely basis. We measure our liquidity position by giving consideration to both on- and off-balance sheet sources of and demands for funds on a daily and weekly basis. Liquidity risk involves the risk of being unable to fund assets with the appropriate duration and rate-based liabilities, as well as the risk of not being able to meet unexpected cash needs. Liquidity planning and management are necessary to ensure the ability to fund operations cost-effectively and to meet current and future potential obligations such as loan commitments, lease obligations, and unexpected deposit outflows. In this process, we focus on both assets and liabilities and on the manner in which they combine to provide adequate liquidity to meet our needs. 65 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Interest rate sensitivity refers to the responsiveness of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities to changes in market interest rates. The rate sensitive position, or gap, is the difference in the volume of rate-sensitive assets and liabilities, at a given time interval, including both floating rate instruments and instruments which are approaching maturity. The measurement of our interest rate sensitivity, or gap, is one of the principal techniques we use in our asset/liability management effort. Our bank generally attempts to maintain a range set by policy between rate-sensitive assets and liabilities by repricing periods. The range set by the bank has been approved by its board of directors. If our bank falls outside their pre-approved range, it requires board action and board approval, by the bank s board of directors. The asset mix of our balance sheet is evaluated continually in terms of several variables: yield, credit quality, and appropriate funding sources and liquidity. Management of the liability mix of the balance sheet focuses on expanding the various funding sources. Our gap and liquidity positions are reviewed periodically to determine whether or not changes in policies and procedures are necessary to achieve financial goals. At December 31, 2012, approximately 50% of total gross loans were adjustable rate. Approximately 88% of our investment securities ($373,190 fair value) are invested in U.S. Government Agency mortgage backed securities. Although most of these have maturities in excess of five years, these are amortizing instruments that generate cash flows each month. The duration (average life of expected cash flows) of our securities at December 31, 2012 was approximately 3.9 years. Deposit liabilities, at that date, consisted of approximately $452,961 (23%) in NOW accounts, $549,457 (27%) in money market accounts and savings, $475,304 (24%) in time deposits and $519,510 (26%) in non-interest bearing demand accounts. The table below presents the market risk associated with our financial instruments. In the Rate Sensitivity Analysis table, rate sensitive assets and liabilities are shown by repricing periods. RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS December 31, 2012 0-1Yr 1-2Yrs 2-3Yrs 3-4Yrs 4-5Yrs 5Yrs+ Total Interest earning assets Fixed rate loans (1) $ 132,961 $ 85,928 $ 76,948 $ 78,201 $ 111,742 $ 236,079 $ 721,859 Variable rate loans (1) 484,331 91,948 42,471 40,474 25,290 29,948 714,462 Investment securities (2) 6,126 136 755 2,856 2,092 402,084 414,049 Federal funds sold and other (3) 117,588 117,588 Other earning assets (4) 9,749 9,749 Total interest earning assets $ 750,755 $ 178,012 $ 120,174 $ 121,531 $ 139,124 $ 668,111 $ 1,977,707 Interest bearing liabilities NOW accounts $ 452,961 $ $ $ $ $ $ 452,961 Money market accounts 311,241 311,241 Savings accounts 238,216 238,216 Time deposits 287,530 85,423 78,861 13,791 8,661 1,038 475,304 Repurchase agreements (5) 18,792 18,792 Federal funds purchased 38,932 38,932 Corporate debentures 17,500 17,500 Total interest bearing liabilities $ 1,365,172 $ 85,423 $ 78,861 $ 13,791 $ 8,661 $ 1,038 $ 1,552,946 Interest sensitivity gap (614,417 ) 92,589 41,313 107,740 130,463 667,073 Cumulative gap (614,417 ) (521,828 ) (480,515 ) (372,775 ) (242,312 ) 424,761 Cumulative gap RSA/RSL (6) 0.55 0.64 0.69 0.76 0.84 1.27 (1) Loans are shown at gross values and do not include $458 of net deferred origination fees and costs. Estimated fair value of fixed loans and variable rate loans combined at December 31, 2012 is approximately $1,324,630. (2) Securities are shown at amortized cost. Includes $364,014 (amortized cost basis) of mortgage backed securities of which the majority are fixed rate. Although most have maturities greater than five years, these are amortizing instruments which generate cash flows on a monthly basis. Estimated fair value of securities at December 31, 2012 is approximately $425,758. (3) Includes Federal Funds sold and interest bearing deposits at the Federal Reserve Bank. (4) Includes Federal Home Loan Bank stock and Federal Reserve Bank Stock. (5) Time deposits are shown at carrying value. Estimated fair value at December 31, 2012 is approximately $483,220. (6) Includes securities sold under agreements to repurchase. These are short-term borrowings, generally overnight, from our retail business customers. (7) Rate sensitive assets (RSA) divided by rate sensitive liabilities (RSL), cumulative basis. 66 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements As stated earlier, the rate sensitivity table above summarizes our interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities by repricing periods at a point in time. It does not include assumptions about sensitivity to changes in various interest rates by asset or liability type, correlation between macro environment market rates and specific product types, lag periods, cash flows or other assumptions and projections. However, in addition to static gap analysis, our Bank also uses simulation models to estimate the sensitivity of its net interest income to changes in interest rates. Simulation is a better technique than gap analysis because variables are changed for the various rate conditions. Each category s interest change is calculated as rates ramp up and down. In addition, the repayment speeds and repricing speeds are changed. Rate Shock is a method for stress testing the net interest margin over the next four quarters under several rate change levels. These levels span in 100bps increments up and down from the current interest rates. In order to simulate activity, maturing balances are replaced with the new balances at the new rate level, and repricing balances are adjusted to the new rate shock level. The interest is recalculated for each level along with the new average yield. Net interest margin is then calculated and a margin risk profile is developed. The results of these calculations, as of December 31, 2012 looking four quarters into the future, for our combined Bank, is summarized in the table below. change in interest rates -300 bps -200 bps -100 bps 0 bps +100 bps +200 bps +300 bps resulting effect on net interest income (a) -6.30 % -5.31 % -3.31 % current +1.80 % +2.72 % +2.62 % (a) The percentage change in each of these boxes represents a percentage change from the net interest income (dollars) that the models projected for the next four quarters. To put this in perspective, as an example, our net interest income for 2012 was $86,469. Assuming a 100bps decrease in rates, our model is suggesting that our net interest income would decrease by 3.31%, or approximately $2,862. Likewise, assuming a 100bps increase in rates, our model is suggesting that our net interest income would increase by 1.80%, or approximately $1,556. It is important to reiterate again, that these models are built on a multitude of assumptions and predictions. This is not an exact science. The benefit that we see is measuring our overall interest rate risk profile. Although we are by no means suggesting the exactness of the numbers above, what we see as a take away is that in general, it appears that if market interest rates increase, it would suggest a benefit to our net interest income. If market interest rates decrease, it would suggest a negative effect on our net interest income. We believe that our interest rate risk is manageable and under control as of December 31, 2012. Simulation and rate shock stress testing our net interest income ( NIM ) is a forward looking analysis. That is, it estimates, based on various assumptions, what the effect on our NIM might be given various changes in future interest rates. Another way of analyzing our interest rate risk profile is looking at history. The table below measures the correlation between our NIM and market interest rates over a 12 year period starting at the beginning of 2000 and ending on December 31, 2012. We used the Prime lending rate as a surrogate for market interest rates. This simple correlation is not perfect because we ignore changes in duration of our asset/liability portfolio over time and changes in the slope of the yield curve over time, as well as other significant environmental changes that may occur, such as the recent banking crisis. However, it will demonstrate that over time our asset/liability portfolio generally tended to be asset sensitive. That is, in general, over this historical period, when market interest rates increased, our NIM increased, and when market interest rates decreased, our NIM decreased. In the following table, the Prime rate is measured by the vertical bars, and their scale is on the left hand side of the graph. Each bar represents a month. Our NIM is represented by the line graph and its scale is on the right hand side of the graph. The line graph is connecting a series of dots, which represents our NIM for a given quarter. 67 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Net Interest Margin vs. Prime Managing interest rate risk is a dynamic process. Our philosophy is to not try to guess the market in either direction. We do not want to be excessively assets sensitive or excessively liability sensitive. We try to manage our asset/liability portfolio with the goal of optimizing our yield without taking on excessive interest rate risk. Contractual Obligations While our liquidity monitoring and management considers both present and future demands for and sources of liquidity, the following table of contractual commitments focuses only on our future obligations. In the table, all deposits with indeterminate maturities, such as demand deposits, checking accounts, savings accounts and money market accounts, are presented as having a maturity of one year or less. December 31, 2012 (in thousands of dollars) Total Due in one year or less Due over one year and less than three years Due over three years and less than five years Due over five Years Contractual commitments: Deposit maturities $ 1,997,232 $ 1,809,458 $ 164,284 $ 22,452 $ 1,038 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 18,792 18,792 Corporate debenture 16,970 16,970 Federal funds purchased 38,932 38,932 Deferred compensation 18,505 3,464 1,817 758 12,466 Operating lease obligations 7,559 1,571 2,103 1,500 2,385 Total $ 2,097,990 $ 1,872,217 $ 168,204 $ 24,710 $ 32,859 68 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Primary Sources and Uses of Funds Our primary sources and uses of funds during the year ended December 31, 2012 are summarized in the table below. $173,644 sale of securities 126,381 mortgage backed securities pay-downs 76,557 calls and maturities of securities 81,061 cash received from bank acquisitions 51,482 decrease in loans, net 21,787 cash received from FDIC loss share agreements 22,900 proceeds from the sale of OREO 14,347 net decrease in cash and cash equivalents 8,037 net cash from operations 4,140 net increase repurchase agreements 1,659 proceeds from sale of equipment and property $581,995 Total sources of funds $339,200 decrease in deposits 206,475 purchases of securities 10,000 purchase BOLI 15,692 net decrease in federal funds purchased 9,425 purchase equipment and property, net 1,203 cash dividends paid on common stock $581,995 Total uses of funds Capital Resources Total stockholders equity at December 31, 2012 was $273,531, or 11.6% of total assets compared to $262,633, or 11.5% of total assets at December 31, 2011. The $10,898 increase was the result of the following items: net income of $9,905, plus stock based compensation expense of $610, plus net change in unrealized gains in securities available for sale equal to $1,586, less $1,203 of dividends paid on common shares outstanding. The bank regulatory agencies have established risk-based capital requirements for banks. These guidelines are intended to provide an additional measure of a bank s capital adequacy by assigning weighted levels of risk to asset categories. Banks are also required to systematically maintain capital against such off- balance sheet activities as loans sold with recourse, loan commitments, guarantees and standby letters of credit. These guidelines are intended to strengthen the quality of capital by increasing the emphasis on common equity and restricting the amount of loan loss reserves and other forms of equity such as preferred stock that may be included in capital. Our subsidiary Banks objective is to maintain its current status as a well-capitalized institution as that term is defined by its regulators. Under the terms of the guidelines, banks must meet minimum capital adequacy based upon both total assets and risk-adjusted assets. All banks are required to maintain a minimum ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of 8%, a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of 4% and a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets of 4% ( leverage ratio ). Adherence to these guidelines has not had an adverse impact on our Company. In addition, our bank has placed a self-imposed voluntary target that it will maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio (Tier 1 Capital divided by average assets) of at least 8%, and has communicated that to the OCC, its primary regulatory agency. The OCC has not placed any restrictions or targets upon the Company s subsidiary bank. 69 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements Selected consolidated capital ratios at December 31, 2012, and 2011 were as follows: Actual Well Capitalized Excess Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount As of December 31, 2012: Total capital: (to risk weighted assets): $ 249,016 17.9 % $ 139,200 10.0 % $ 109,817 Tier 1 capital: (to risk weighted assets): $ 231,501 16.6 % $ 83,520 6.0 % $ 147,981 Tier 1 capital: (to average assets): $ 231,501 9.9 % $ 116,789 5.0 % $ 114,712 As of December 31, 2011: Total capital: (to risk weighted assets): $ 247,567 19.1 % $ 129,927 10.0 % $ 117,640 Tier 1 capital: (to risk weighted assets): $ 231,182 17.8 % $ 77,956 6.0 % $ 153,226 Tier 1 capital: (to average assets): $ 231,182 10.5 % $ 110,143 5.0 % $ 121,039 Effects of Inflation and Changing Prices The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, which require the measurement of financial position and operating results in terms of historical dollars without considering the change in the relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. Unlike most industrial companies, virtually all of the assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates generally have a more significant impact on the performance of a financial institution than the effects of general levels of inflation. Although interest rates do not necessarily move in the same direction or to the same extent as the prices of goods and services, increases in inflation generally have resulted in increased interest rates. In addition, inflation affects financial institutions increased cost of goods and services purchased, the cost of salaries and benefits, occupancy expense, and similar items. Inflation and related increases in interest rates generally decrease the market value of investments and loans held and may adversely affect liquidity, earnings, and shareholders equity. Commercial and other loan originations and refinancings tend to slow as interest rates increase, and can reduce our earnings from such activities. Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements We generally do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements, other than approved and unfunded loans and letters and lines of credit to our customers in the ordinary course of business. Accounting Pronouncements Refer to Note 1(ah) in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion on the effects of new accounting pronouncements. °Item 7 A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Market risk is the risk of economic loss from adverse changes in the fair value of financial instruments due to changes in (a) interest rates, (b) foreign exchange rates, or (c) other factors that relate to market volatility of the rate, index, or price underlying the financial instrument. Our market risk is composed primarily of interest rate risk. Our Asset/Liability Committee ( ALCO ) is responsible for reviewing the interest rate sensitivity position, and establishing policies to monitor and limit the exposure to interest rate risk. Substantially all of our interest rate risk exposure relates to the financial instrument activity of our subsidiary Bank. As such, the board of directors of our subsidiary Bank is responsible to review and approve the policies and guidelines established by their Bank s ALCO. The primary objective of asset/liability management is to provide an optimum and stable net interest margin, after-tax return on assets and return on equity capital, as well as adequate liquidity and capital. Interest rate risk is measured and monitored through gap analysis and simulation analysis, which measures the amount of repricing risk associated with the balance sheet at specific points in time. See Liquidity and Market Risk Management presented in Item 7 above for quantitative disclosures in tabular format, as well as additional qualitative disclosures. 70 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements °Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The financial statements of our Company as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 are set forth in this Form 10-K beginning at page 75. °Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. None. °Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. (a) Evaluation of disclosure controls and procedures . As of December 31, 2012, the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer each concluded that as of December 31, 2012, the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we maintained effective disclosure controls and procedures. (b) Management s report on internal control over financial reporting. Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations, also referred to as the Treadway Commission. Based upon our evaluation under the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2012. The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012 has been audited by Crowe Horwath LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included herein. As permitted, the Company has excluded the current year acquisitions of Central Florida State Bank and First Guaranty Bank and Trust of Jacksonville (combined represents approximately 13% of total consolidated assets at December 31, 2012) from the scope of management s report on internal control over financial reporting. °Item 9B. Other Information. Not applicable. 71 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements PART III °Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance Our Company has a Code of Ethics that applies to our principal executive officer and principal financial officer (who is also our principal accounting officer), a copy of which is included on the Company s website, www.centerstatebanks.com , at Investor Relations / Governance Documents. The website also includes a copy of the Company s Audit Committee Charter, Compensation Committee Charter and Nominating Committee Charter. The information contained under the sections captioned Directors and Executive Officers under Proposal One Election of Directors, and in the sections captioned Nominating Committee, Audit Committee Report and Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance, in the registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on April 25, 2013, to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days of our fiscal year end (the Proxy Statement ), is incorporated herein by reference. °Item 11. Executive Compensation The information contained in the sections captioned Information About the Board of Directors and Its Committees under Proposal One Election of Directors, and the sections captioned Executive Compensation, Director Compensation, Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation, and Compensation Committee Report, in the Proxy Statement, is incorporated herein by reference. °Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters Information contained in the section captioned Management and Principal Stock Ownership under Election of Directors, and under the table captioned Equity Compensation Plan Information under Executive Compensation in the Proxy Statement, is incorporated herein by reference. °Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information contained in the section entitled Certain Related Transactions and the section entitled Director Independence under Election of Directors in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. °Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services The information contained in the section captioned Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm in the Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. °Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report: 1. Financial Statements Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders Equity and Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 72 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 2. Financial Statement Schedules All schedules have been omitted as the required information is either inapplicable or included in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 3. Exhibits 3.1 Articles of Incorporation (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Registration Statement on Form S-4, File No. 333-95087, dated January 20, 2000 (the Initial Registration Statement ) 3.2 Articles of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company s Form 8-K dated April 25, 2006) 3.3 Articles of Amendment to Articles of Incorporation (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Form 8-K dated December 16, 2009) 3.4 Articles of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.6 to the Company s Form 10-K dated March 4, 2010) 3.5 Bylaws (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Initial Registration Statement) 3.6 Amendment to Bylaws (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 to the Company s Form 10-K dated March 7, 2008.) 3.7 Articles of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation authorizing the Preferred Shares (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Form 8-K dated November 24, 2008.) 3.8 Articles of Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation increasing the number of authorized common shares from 40,000,000 to 100,000,000 (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s Form 8-K dated December 16, 2009.) 4.1 Specimen Stock Certificate of CenterState Banks, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registration Statement) 10.1 CenterState Banks, Inc. Stock Option Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registration Statement)* 10.3 Form of CenterState Banks, Inc. Split Dollar Agreement (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Form 8-K dated January 11, 2006)* 10.4 CenterState Banks, Inc. 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to Appendix D to the Company s Proxy Statement dated March 30, 2007)* 10.5 Executive Deferred Compensation Agreement between the Company and Ernest S. Pinner, its Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Form 8-K dated December 31, 2008.)* 73 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements 10.6 Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreements ( SERP ) between the Company and John C. Corbett and James J. Antal (Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.1 and 10.2 to the Company s Form 8-K dated July 14, 2010.)* 10.7 Employment Agreements between the Company and John C. Corbett and James J. Antal (Incorporated by reference to Exhibits 10.4 and 10.5 to the Company s Form 8-K dated July 14, 2010.)* 10.8 Supplemental Executive Retirement Agreement ( SERP ) between the Company and Stephen D. Young, its Treasurer and Executive Vice President of the Company s subsidiary bank, CenterState Bank of Florida, N.A. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company s Form 10-K dated March 16, 2011.)* 10.9 Employment Agreement between the Company and Stephen D. Young, its Treasurer and Executive Vice President of the Company s subsidiary bank, CenterState Bank of Florida, N.A. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Company s Form 10-K dated March 16, 2011.)* 10.10 Employment Agreement between the Company and Ernest S. Pinner, its President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Form 8-K dated February 14, 2011.)* 14.1 Code of Ethics (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14.1 to the Company s December 31, 2003 Form 10-K dated March 26, 2004) 21.1 List of Subsidiaries of CenterState Banks, Inc. 23.1 Consent of Crowe Horwath LLP 31.1 Certification of President and Chief Executive Officer under Section302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1 Certification of President and Chief Executive Officer under Section906 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer under Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 101.1 Interactive Data File 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Presentation Linkbase Document * Represents a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit. 74 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES Index to consolidated financial statements Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 76 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 77 Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 78 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders Equity for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 80 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 81 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 83 75 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM Board of Directors and Shareholders CenterState Banks, Inc. Davenport, Florida We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of CenterState Banks, Inc. as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, changes in stockholders equity, and cash flows for each of the three years ending December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management s report on internal control over financial reporting contained in Item 9A of the accompanying Form 10-K. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (Untied States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. A Company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of authorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. As permitted, the Company has excluded the current year acquisitions of Central Florida State Bank and First Guaranty Bank and Trust of Jacksonville from the scope of management s report on internal control over financial reporting. As such, these acquired institutions have also been excluded from the scope of our audit of internal control over financial reporting. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of CenterState Banks, Inc. as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years ending December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). /s/ Crowe Horwath LLP Crowe Horwath LLP Fort Lauderdale, Florida March 4, 2013 76 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Balance Sheets December 31, 2012 and 2011 (in thousands of dollars, except per share data) 2012 2011 Assets Cash and due from banks $ 19,160 $ 17,893 Federal funds sold and Federal Reserve Bank deposits 117,588 133,202 Cash and cash equivalents 136,748 151,095 Trading securities, at fair value 5,048 Investment securities available for sale, at fair value 425,758 591,164 Loans held for sale, at lower of cost or fair value 2,709 3,741 Loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements 296,295 164,051 Loans, excluding those covered by FDIC loss share agreements 1,139,568 1,119,715 Allowance for loan losses (26,682 ) (27,944 ) Net loans 1,409,181 1,255,822 Accrued interest receivable 6,100 6,929 Federal Home Loan Bank and Federal Reserve Bank stock, at cost 9,749 10,804 Bank premises and equipment, net 97,954 94,358 Deferred income tax asset, net 3,451 Goodwill 44,924 38,035 Core deposit intangible 5,944 5,203 Trust intangible 1,363 Bank owned life insurance 47,957 36,520 Other repossessed real estate owned covered by FDIC loss share agreements 26,783 9,469 Other repossessed real estate owned 6,875 8,712 FDIC indemnification asset 119,289 50,642 Prepaid expenses and other assets 16,858 18,514 Total assets $ 2,363,240 $ 2,284,459 Liabilities and Stockholders Equity Deposits: Interest bearing $ 1,477,722 $ 1,496,661 Noninterest bearing 519,510 423,128 Total deposits 1,997,232 1,919,789 Securities sold under agreement to repurchase 18,792 14,652 Federal funds purchased 38,932 54,624 Corporate debentures 16,970 16,945 Accrued interest payable 579 778 Deferred income tax liability, net 1,892 Settlement payments due FDIC 2,599 Accounts payable and accrued expenses 15,312 12,439 Total liabilities 2,089,709 2,021,826 Stockholders equity: Preferred stock, $.01 par value, $1,000 liquidation preference; 5,000,000 shares authorized, no shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2012 and 2011 Common stock, $.01 par value: 100,000,000 shares authorized; 30,079,767 and 30,055,499 shares issued and outstanding at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively 301 301 Additional paid-in capital 228,952 228,342 Retained earnings 36,979 28,277 Accumulated other comprehensive income 7,299 5,713 Total stockholders equity 273,531 262,633 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 2,363,240 $ 2,284,459 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements 77 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income Years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands of dollars, except per share data) 2012 2011 2010 Interest income: Loans $ 81,592 $ 65,893 $ 55,697 Investment securities available for sale: Taxable 11,297 14,296 16,833 Tax-exempt 1,423 1,422 1,424 Federal funds sold and other 638 632 626 94,950 82,243 74,580 Interest expense: Deposits 7,529 11,499 15,722 Securities sold under agreement to repurchase 86 84 89 Corporate debentures 637 448 421 Federal funds purchased 30 49 107 Federal Home Loan Bank advances and other borrowings 199 127 403 8,481 12,207 16,742 Net interest income 86,469 70,036 57,838 Provision for loan losses 9,220 45,991 29,624 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 77,249 24,045 28,214 Non interest income: Service charges on deposit accounts 6,598 6,316 6,873 Income from correspondent banking and bond sales division 32,806 24,889 32,696 Wealth management related fees 2,598 1,801 1,118 Trust fees 1,162 Debit card and ATM fees 4,023 2,852 1,890 Loan related fees 553 747 534 Bank owned life insurance income 1,436 967 774 Trading securities revenue 690 485 622 Net gain on sale of securities 2,423 3,464 7,034 Bargain purchase gain 453 57,020 1,377 FDIC indemnification income 6,017 1,132 FDIC indemnification asset (amortization)/accretion (3,096 ) (503 ) 597 Other service charges and fees 3,598 2,802 1,418 Total non interest income 59,261 101,972 54,933 (Continued) 78 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Income Years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands of dollars, except per share data) 2012 2011 2010 Non interest expense: Salaries, wages and employee benefits $ 69,938 $ 58,245 $ 55,033 Occupancy expense 8,697 8,271 6,652 Depreciation of premises and equipment 5,678 4,207 3,350 Marketing expenses 2,564 2,791 2,498 Data processing expense 3,988 4,680 2,789 Legal, audit and other professional fees 2,527 2,729 3,764 Supplies, stationary and printing 1,124 1,285 1,091 Core deposit intangible (CDI) amortization 1,155 804 519 Bank regulatory expenses 2,429 2,621 2,989 ATM and debit card related expenses 1,207 1,631 1,298 Postage and delivery 1,148 930 735 Loss on sale of repossessed real estate ( OREO ) 1,185 545 756 Valuation write down of repossessed real estate ( OREO ) 4,258 6,751 2,951 Loss on repossessed assets other than real estate 123 377 458 Foreclosure related expenses 5,640 5,023 2,113 Merger and acquisition related expenses 2,714 7,696 769 Other expenses 7,605 6,103 5,560 Total other expenses 121,980 114,689 93,325 Income (loss) before provision for income taxes 14,530 11,328 (10,178 ) Provision (benefit) for income taxes 4,625 3,419 (4,240 ) Net income (loss) $ 9,905 $ 7,909 $ (5,938 ) Other comprehensive income, net of tax: Unrealized holding gain (loss) on available for sale securities, net of income taxes 3,097 4,958 238 Less: reclassified adjustments for gain included in net income, net of income taxes at December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 of $912 , $1,303, and $2,647, respectively 1,511 2,161 4,387 Net unrealized gain (loss) on available for sale securities, net of income taxes 1,586 2,797 (4,149 ) Total comprehensive income (loss) $ 11,491 $ 10,706 $ (10,087 ) Earnings (loss) per share: Basic $ 0.33 $ 0.26 $ (0.22 ) Diluted $ 0.33 $ 0.26 $ (0.22 ) Common shares used in the calculation of earnings (loss) per share: Basic 30,073,959 30,034,573 27,608,211 Diluted 30,141,863 30,039,187 27,608,211 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 79 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity Years ended December 31, 2012 2011, and 2010 (in thousands of dollars, except per share data) Number of Common Shares Common stock Additional paid-in capital Retained earnings Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) Total stockholders equity Balances at January 1, 2010 25,773,229 $ 258 $ 193,464 $ 28,623 $ 7,065 $ 229,410 Comprehensive income: Net loss (5,938 ) (5,938 ) Unrealized holding loss on available for sale securities, net of deferred income taxes of ($1,759) (4,149 ) (4,149 ) Total comprehensive loss (10,087 ) Dividends paid common ($0.04 per share) (1,116 ) (1,116 ) Stock options exercised, including tax benefit 90,592 1 734 735 Stock based compensation expense 425 425 Stock grants issued 940 10 10 Proceeds from public stock offering, net of $2,318 in underwriting fees and transaction costs 4,140,000 41 32,831 32,872 Balances at December 31, 2010 30,004,761 $ 300 $ 227,464 $ 21,569 $ 2,916 $ 252,249 Comprehensive income: Net Income 7,909 7,909 Unrealized holding gain on available for sale securities, net of deferred income taxes of $1,688 2,797 2,797 Total comprehensive income 10,706 Dividends paid common ($0.04 per share) (1,201 ) (1,201 ) Stock options exercised, including tax benefit 14,903 1 95 96 Stock based compensation expense 398 398 Stock grants issued 35,835 385 385 Balances at December 31, 2011 30,055,499 $ 301 $ 228,342 $ 28,277 $ 5,713 $ 262,633 Comprehensive income: Net Income 9,905 9,905 Unrealized holding gain on available for sale securities, net of deferred income taxes of $957 1,586 1,586 Total comprehensive income 11,491 Dividends paid common ($0.04 per share) (1,203 ) (1,203 ) Stock options exercised, including tax benefit Stock based compensation expense 363 363 Stock grants issued 247 247 Balances at December 31, 2012 30,055,499 $ 301 $ 228,952 $ 36,979 $ 7,299 $ 273,531 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 80 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (in thousands of dollars) 2012 2011 2010 Cash flows from operating activities: Net income (loss) $ 9,905 $ 7,909 $ (5,938 ) Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Provision for loan losses 9,220 45,991 29,624 Depreciation of premises and equipment 5,678 4,207 3,350 Accretion of purchase accounting adjustments (25,211 ) (12,849 ) (4,788 ) Net amortization/accretion of investment securities 8,562 7,284 6,235 Net deferred loan origination fees (181 ) (90 ) (11 ) Loss on sale of other real estate owned 1,185 545 756 Valuation write down of repossessed real estate ( OREO ) 4,258 6,751 2,951 (Gain) loss on sale of repossessed assets other than real estate (10 ) 234 270 Valuation write down on repossessed assets other than real estate 133 143 188 (Gain) loss on sale or disposal of fixed assets (233 ) (17 ) 25 Deferred income taxes 4,386 3,300 (2,266 ) Net gain on sale of securities (2,423 ) (3,464 ) (7,034 ) Trading securities revenue (690 ) (485 ) (622 ) Purchases of trading securities (367,105 ) (249,430 ) (304,750 ) Proceeds from sale of trading securities 362,747 252,140 303,147 Gain on sale of loans held for sale (270 ) (143 ) (95 ) Loans originated and held for sale (18,931 ) (12,309 ) (7,858 ) Proceeds from sale of loans held for sale 20,233 9,384 7,280 Impairment of bank property held for sale 614 Stock based compensation expense 631 705 699 Bank owned life insurance income (1,436 ) (967 ) (774 ) Bargain purchase gain (453 ) (57,020 ) (1,377 ) Cash provided by (used in) changes in: Net change in accrued interest receivable, prepaid expenses, and other assets (1,721 ) (871 ) 11,250 Net change in interest payable, accounts payable and accrued expenses (851 ) (2,805 ) (8,541 ) Net cash from operating activities 8,037 (1,857 ) 21,721 Cash flows from investing activities: Purchases of investment securities available for sale (26,157 ) (93,618 ) (336,692 ) Purchases of mortgage backed securities available for sale (178,332 ) (369,874 ) (272,152 ) Purchases of FHLB and FRB stock (1,986 ) (866 ) Proceeds from callable investment securities available for sale 76,245 91,970 198,865 Proceeds from maturities of investment securities available for sale 312 1,081 14,827 Proceeds from pay-downs of mortgage backed securities available for sale 126,381 107,532 127,599 Proceeds from sales of investment securities available for sale 22,758 30,765 34,817 Proceeds from sales of mortgage backed securities available for sale 146,051 142,572 200,456 Proceeds from sales of FHLB and FRB stock 4,835 3,561 272 Purchase of bank owned life insurance (10,000 ) (11,000 ) Decrease in loans, net of repayments 51,482 50,595 3,324 Proceeds from the sale of loans in wholesale market 18,251 8,579 Cash received from FDIC loss sharing agreements 21,787 11,620 Purchases of premises and equipment, net (9,425 ) (9,341 ) (24,121 ) Proceeds from the sale of premises and equipment, net 1,154 506 Proceeds from sale of bank property held for sale 505 Proceeds from sale of other real estate owned 22,900 18,766 7,370 Net cash from bank acquisitions 81,061 77,577 55,368 Net cash from investing activities 329,571 81,963 6,646 81 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 (in thousands of dollars) 2012 2011 2010 Cash flows from financing activities: Net (decrease) increase in deposits (339,200 ) (77,413 ) 37,208 Net increase (decrease) in securities sold under agreement to repurchase 4,140 863 (15,773 ) Net (decrease) in federal funds purchased (15,692 ) (13,871 ) (76,444 ) Net decrease in other borrowed funds (15,000 ) (20,741 ) Net proceeds from public stock offering 32,872 Stock options exercised, including tax benefit 96 735 Dividends paid (1,203 ) (1,201 ) (1,116 ) Net cash from financing activities (351,955 ) (106,526 ) (43,259 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents (14,347 ) (26,420 ) (14,892 ) Cash and cash equivalents, at beginning of year 151,095 177,515 192,407 Cash and cash equivalents, at end of year $ 136,748 $ 151,095 $ 177,515 Transfer of loans to other real estate owned $ 26,155 $ 20,900 $ 15,427 Cash paid during the year for: Interest $ 10,319 $ 14,090 $ 17,853 Income taxes $ 10 $ 235 $ 422 See accompanying notes to the consolidated financial statements. 82 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (1) Summary of significant accounting policies (a) Nature of operations and principles of consolidation The consolidated financial statements of CenterState Banks, Inc. (the Company ) include the accounts of CenterState Banks, Inc. (the Parent Company ), and its wholly owned subsidiaries CenterState Bank of Florida, N.A. and R4ALL, Inc. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company, through its subsidiary banks, operates through 55 full service banking locations in eighteen counties throughout Central Florida, providing traditional deposit and lending products and services to its commercial and retail customers. The Company s primary deposit products are checking, savings and term certificate accounts, and its primary lending products include commercial real estate loans, residential real estate loans, commercial loans and consumer loans. Substantially all loans are secured by commercial real estate, residential real estate, business assets or consumer assets. There are no significant concentrations of loans to any one industry or customer. However, the customers ability to repay their loans is dependent on the real estate and general economic conditions in the area. The Company, through its CenterState Bank of Florida, N.A. subsidiary, also operates a correspondent banking and bond sales division. The division is integrated with and part of the lead subsidiary bank located in Winter Haven, Florida, although the majority of the bond salesmen, traders and support personnel are physically located in leased facilities in Birmingham, Alabama and Atlanta, Georgia. The primary revenue generating activity of this division is commissions earned on fixed income security sales. Other revenue generating activities include correspondent bank deposits (i.e. federal funds purchased), fees earned on correspondent bank checking accounts, fees earned from safe-keeping activities, bond accounting services for correspondents, and asset/liability consulting related activities. R4ALL, Inc. is a non bank subsidiary incorporated during the third quarter of 2009. The primary purpose of this subsidiary is to purchase, hold, and dispose of troubled assets acquired from the Company s subsidiary bank(s). The following is a description of the basis of presentation and the significant accounting and reporting policies, which the Company follows in preparing and presenting its consolidated financial statements. (b) Use of estimates To prepare financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, management makes estimates and assumptions based on available information. These estimates and assumptions affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and the disclosures provided. Significant items subject to estimates and assumptions include allowance for loan losses, FDIC Indemnification asset, fair values of financial instruments, useful life of intangibles and valuation of goodwill, fair value estimates of stock-based compensation, fair value estimates of OREO, and deferred tax assets. Actual results could differ from these estimates. (c) Cash flow reporting For purposes of the statement of cash flows, the Company considers cash and due from banks, federal funds sold, money market and non interest bearing deposits in other banks with a purchased maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Net cash flows are reported for customer loan and deposit transactions, interest bearing deposits in other financial institutions, federal funds purchased, repurchase agreements, proceeds from capital offering and other borrowed funds. (Continued) 83 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (d) Interest bearing deposits in other financial institutions Interest bearing deposits in other financial institutions mature within one year and are carried at cost and are included in cash and due from banks in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. (e) Trading securities The Company engages in trading activities for its own account. Securities that are held principally for resale in the near term are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value included in earnings. Interest is included in net interest income. (f) Investment securities available for sale Debt securities not classified as held to maturity or trading are classified as available for sale. Securities available for sale are carried at fair value, with unrealized holding gains and losses reported in other comprehensive income, net of tax. Interest income includes amortization of purchase premium or discount. Premiums and discounts on securities are amortized on the level-yield method without anticipating prepayments, except for mortgage backed securities where prepayments are anticipated. Gains and losses on sales are recorded on the trade date and determined using the specific identification method. Securities are evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment ( OTTI ) on at least a quarterly basis, and more frequently when economic or market conditions warrant such an evaluation. For securities in an unrealized loss position, management considers the extent and duration of the unrealized loss, and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer. Management also assesses whether it intends to sell, or it is more likely than not that it will be required to sell, a security in an unrealized loss position before recovery of its amortized cost basis. If either of the criteria regarding intent or requirement to sell is met, the entire difference between amortized cost and fair value is recognized as impairment through earnings. For debt securities that do not meet the aforementioned criteria, the amount of impairment is split into two components as follows: 1) OTTI related to credit loss, which must be recognized in the income statement and 2) other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) related to other factors, which is recognized in other comprehensive income. The credit loss is defined as the difference between the present value of the cash flows expected to be collected and the amortized cost basis. (g) Bond commissions revenue recognition Bond sales transactions and related revenue and expenses are recorded on a settlement date basis. The effect on the financial statements of using the settlement date basis rather than the trade date basis is not material. (h) Loans held for sale Mortgage loans originated and intended for sale in the secondary market are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value, as determined by outstanding commitments from investors. Net unrealized losses, if any, are recorded as a valuation allowance and charged to earnings. Mortgage loans held for sale are generally sold with servicing rights released. Gains and losses on sales of mortgage loans are based on the difference between the selling price and the carrying value of the related loan sold. (Continued) 84 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (i) Loans Loans that management has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity or payoff are reported at their outstanding unpaid principal balance net of purchase premiums and discounts, deferred loan fees and costs, and an allowance for loan losses. Interest income is accrued on the unpaid principal balance. The recorded investment in a loan excludes accrued interest receivable, deferred fees, and deferred costs because they are not considered material. A loan is considered a troubled debt restructured loan based on individual facts and circumstances. A modification may include either an increase or reduction in interest rate or deferral of principal payments or both. Loans for which the terms have been modified resulting in a concession, and for which the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties, are considered troubled debt restructurings. The Company classifies troubled debt restructured loans as impaired and evaluates the need for an allowance for loan losses on a loan-by-loan basis. An allowance for loan losses is based on either the present value of estimated future cash flows or the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral. Loans retain their interest accrual status at the time of modification. Loan origination fees and the incremental direct cost of loan origination, are deferred and recognized in interest income without anticipating prepayments over the contractual life of the loans. If the loan is prepaid, the remaining unamortized fees and costs are charged or credited to interest income. Amortization ceases for nonaccrual loans. A loan is moved to nonaccrual status in accordance with the Company s policy typically after 90 days of non-payment, or less than 90 days of non-payment if management determines that the full timely collection of principal and interest becomes doubtful. Past due status is based on the contractual terms of the loan. In all cases, loans are placed on nonaccrual or charged-off at an earlier date if collection of principal or interest is considered doubtful. Nonaccrual loans and loans past due 90 days still on accrual include both smaller balance homogeneous loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment and individually classified impaired loans. Single family home loans, consumer loans and smaller commercial, land, development and construction loans (less than $500) are monitored by payment history, and as such, past due payments is generally the triggering mechanism to determine nonaccrual status. Larger (greater than $500) commercial, land, development and construction loans are monitored on a loan level basis, and therefore in these cases it is more likely that a loan may be placed on nonaccrual status before it becomes 90 days past due. All interest accrued but not received for loans placed on nonaccrual, is reversed against interest income. Interest received on such loans is accounted for on the cash-basis or cost-recovery method, until qualifying for return to accrual. Loans are returned to accrual status when all the principal and interest amounts contractually due are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured. Non real estate consumer loans are typically charged off no later than 120 days past due. The Company, considering current information and events regarding the borrower s ability to repay their obligations, considers a loan to be impaired when it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. When a loan is considered to be impaired, the amount of the impairment is measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate, the secondary market value of the loan, or the fair value of the collateral for collateral dependent loans. Interest income on impaired loans is recognized in (Continued) 85 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 accordance with the Company s non-accrual policy. Impaired loans are written down to the extent that principal is judged to be uncollectible and, in the case of impaired collateral dependent loans where repayment is expected to be provided solely by the underlying collateral and there is no other available and reliable sources of repayment, are written down to the lower of cost or collateral value. Impairment losses are included in the allowance for loan losses. Large groups of smaller balance homogeneous loans, such as consumer and residential real estate loans, are collectively evaluated for impairment, and accordingly, they are not separately identified for impairment disclosures. (j) Purchased credit-impaired loans As a part of business acquisitions, the Company acquires loans, some of which have shown evidence of credit deterioration since origination. These purchased credit-impaired ( PCI ) loans were determined to be credit impaired based on specific risk characteristics of the loan, including product type, domicile of the borrower, past due status, owner occupancy status, geographic location of the collateral, and loan to value ratios. Purchasers are permitted to aggregate credit impaired loans acquired in the same fiscal quarter into one or more pools, provided that the loans have common risk characteristics. A pool is then accounted for as a single asset with a single composite interest rate and an aggregate expectation of cash flows. For the loan portfolios acquired through failed bank acquisitions, the Company aggregated the commercial, consumer, and residential loans into ten pools of loans with common risk characteristics for each FDIC failed institution acquired. These acquired loans were recorded at the acquisition date fair value, and after acquisition, losses are recognized through the allowance for loan losses. The Company estimates the amount and timing of expected cash flows for each acquired loan pool and the expected cash flows in excess of the amount paid is recorded as interest income over the remaining life of the loan pools. On a quarterly basis, the Company updates the amount of loan principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected, incorporating assumptions regarding default rates, loss severities, the amounts and timing of prepayments and other factors that are reflective of current market conditions. Probable decreases in expected loan principal cash flows trigger the recognition of impairment, which is then measured as the present value of the expected principal loss plus any related foregone interest cash flows discounted at the pool s effective interest rate. Impairments that occur after the acquisition date are recognized through the provision for loan losses. Probable and significant increases in expected principal cash flows would first reverse any previously recorded allowance for loan losses; any remaining increases are recognized prospectively as interest income. The impacts of (i) prepayments, (ii) changes in variable interest rates, and (iii) any other changes in the timing of expected cash flows are recognized prospectively as adjustments to interest income. Disposals of loans, which may include sales of loans, receipt of payments in full by the borrower, or foreclosure, result in removal of the loan from the purchased credit impaired portfolio. (k) Concentration of credit risk Most of the Company s business activity is with customers located within Florida. Therefore, the Company s exposure to credit risk is significantly affected by changes in the economy and the real estate market within Florida, primarily central and northeastern Florida. (l) Allowance for loan losses The allowance for loan losses is a valuation allowance for probable incurred credit losses. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectibility of a loan balance is confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. Management estimates the allowance balance required using past loan loss experience, the nature and volume of the portfolio, information about specific borrower situations and estimated collateral values, economic conditions, and other factors. Allocations of the allowance may be made for specific loans, but the entire allowance is available for any loan that, in management s judgment, should be charged-off. (Continued) 86 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The allowance consists of specific and general components. The specific component relates to loans that are individually classified as impaired. The general component covers loans that are not individually classified as impaired and is based on historical loss experience adjusted for current factors. A loan is impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Loans, for which the terms have been modified resulting in a concession, and for which the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties, are considered troubled debt restructurings and classified as impaired. Factors considered by management in determining impairment include payment status, collateral value, and the probability of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments when due. Loans that experience insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired. Management determines the significance of payment delays and payment shortfalls on case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower, including the length of the delay, the reasons for the delay, the borrower s prior payment record, and the amount of the shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed. Commercial, commercial real estate, land, acquisition and development, and construction loans over $500 are individually evaluated for impairment. During the fourth quarter of 2010 CenterState Bank of Florida, N.A. changed its policy relating to the size of commercial, commercial real estate, land, acquisition and development, and construction loans to be individually evaluated for impairment from over $250 to over $500. The reason for the change was due to growth in the size of CenterState Bank of Florida, N.A. as compared to its size when the initial $250 policy guideline was originally initiated. During the third quarter of 2011, the Company changed from one quarter lag to current quarter when calculating historical loss rates, because it is more reflective of the most recent allowance for loan loss activities. If a loan is impaired, a portion of the allowance is allocated so that the loan is reported, net, at the present value of estimated future cash flows using the loan s existing rate or at the fair value of collateral if repayment is expected solely from the collateral. Large groups of smaller balance homogeneous loans, such as consumer and residential real estate loans, are collectively evaluated for impairment, and accordingly, they are not separately identified for impairment disclosures. Troubled debt restructurings are separately identified for impairment disclosures and are measured at the present value of estimated future cash flows using the loan s effective rate at inception. If a troubled debt restructuring is considered to be a collateral dependent loan, the loan is reported, net, at the fair value of the collateral. For troubled debt restructurings that subsequently default, the Company determines the amount of reserve in accordance with the accounting policy for the allowance for loan losses. The general component covers non-impaired loans and is based on historical loss experience adjusted for current factors. The historical loss experience is determined by portfolio segment and is based on the actual loss history experienced by the Company over the most recent two years. The portfolio segments identified by the Company are residential loans, commercial real estate loans, construction and land development loans, commercial and industrial and consumer and other. This actual loss experience is supplemented with other economic factors based on the risks present for each portfolio segment. These economic factors include consideration of the following: levels of and trends in delinquencies and impaired loans; levels of (Continued) 87 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 and trends in charge-offs and recoveries; trends in volume and terms of loans; effects of any changes in risk selection and underwriting standards; other changes in lending policies, procedures, and practices; experience, ability, and depth of lending management and other relevant staff; national and local economic trends and conditions; industry conditions; and effects of changes in credit concentrations. The Company has segregated and evaluates its loan portfolio through six portfolio segments. The six segments are residential real estate, commercial real estate, land/ land development/construction, commercial and consumer/other. In addition a sixth portfolio segment was added in 2012, which is comprised of loans acquired through the acquisition of Federal Trust Bank ( FTB ) on November 1, 2011. Residential real estate loans are a mixture of fixed rate and adjustable rate residential mortgage loans, including first mortgages, second mortgages or home equity lines of credit. As a policy, the Company holds adjustable rate loans and sells a portion of its fixed rate loan originations into the secondary market. Changes in interest rates or market conditions may impact a borrower s ability to meet contractual principal and interest payments. Residential real estate loans are secured by real property. Commercial real estate loans include loans secured by office buildings, warehouses, retail stores and other property located in or near our markets. These loans are originated based on the borrower s ability to service the debt and secondarily based on the fair value of the underlying collateral. Land/land development/construction loans include residential and commercial real estate loans and include a mixture of owner occupied and non-owner occupied. The majority of the loans in this category are land related, either undeveloped land, land held for development, residential building lots and commercial building lots. Generally the terms are three to five years, with a potential for renewal at maturity. Commercial loans consist of small-to medium-sized businesses including professional associations, medical services, retail trade, transportation, wholesale trade, manufacturing and tourism. Commercial loans are derived from our market areas and underwritten based on the borrower s ability to service debt from the business s underlying cash flows. As a general practice, we obtain collateral such as inventory, accounts receivable, equipment or other assets although such loans may be uncollateralized but guaranteed. Consumer and other loans include automobiles, boats, mobile homes without land, or uncollateralized but personally guaranteed loans. These loans are originated based primarily on credit scores, debt-to-income ratios and loan-to-value ratios. FTB loans were recorded at fair value at the date of acquisition and the Company had the option for a one year period ending November 1, 2012 to put back any loan that became past due by more than 30 days or adversely classified pursuant to banking regulatory guidelines. This portfolio segment did not include any purchased credit impaired loans, were performing loans selected by the Company and are primarily single family residential real estate loans. (m) Transfer of financial assets Transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales, when control over the assets has been relinquished. Control over transferred assets is deemed to be surrendered when the assets have been isolated from the Company, the transferee obtains the right (free of conditions that constrain it from taking advantage of that right) to pledge or exchange the transferred assets, and the Company does not maintain effective control over the transferred assets through an agreement to repurchase them before their maturity. (Continued) 88 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (n) Foreclosed assets Assets acquired through or instead of loan foreclosure are initially recorded at fair value less costs to sell when acquired, establishing a new cost basis. These assets are subsequently accounted for at lower of cost or fair value less estimated costs to sell. If fair value declines subsequent to foreclosure, a valuation allowance is recorded through expense. Operating costs after acquisition are expensed. Repossessed real estate is included in other repossessed real estate owned and other repossessed assets other than real estate is included in prepaid expenses and other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. (o) Premises and equipment Land is carried at cost. Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the related assets. Buildings are depreciated over a 39 year period, and furniture, fixtures and equipment are depreciated over their related useful life (3 to 15 years). Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of their useful lives or the term of the lease. Major renewals and betterments of property are capitalized; maintenance, repairs, and minor renewals and betterments are expensed in the period incurred. Upon retirement or other disposition of the asset, the asset cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts, and gains or losses are included in income. (p) Software costs Costs of software developed for internal use, such as those related to software licenses, programming, testing, configuration, direct materials and integration, are capitalized and included in premises and equipment. Included in the capitalized costs are those costs related to both our personnel and third party consultants involved in the software development and installation. Once placed in service, the capitalized asset is amortized on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful life, generally three to five years. Capitalized costs of software developed for internal use are reviewed periodically for impairment. (q) Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) and Federal Reserve Bank (FRB) stock The Company s banks are members of the FHLB and FRB system. Members are required to own a certain amount of stock based on the level of borrowings and other factors, and may invest in additional amounts. FHLB and FRB stock is carried at cost, classified as a restricted security, and periodically evaluated for impairment based on ultimate recovery of par value. Both cash and stock dividends are reported as income. (r) Bank owned life insurance (BOLI) The Company, through its subsidiary banks, has purchased life insurance policies on certain key executives. Bank owned life insurance is recorded at the amount that can be realized under the insurance contract at the balance sheet date, which is the cash surrender value adjusted for other charges or other amounts due that are probable at settlement. (s) Goodwill and other intangible assets Goodwill resulting from business combinations prior to January 1, 2009 represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill resulting from business combinations after January 1, 2009, is generally determined as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred, plus the fair value of any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree, over the fair value of the net assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. Goodwill and intangible (Continued) 89 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 assets acquired in a purchase business combination and determined to have an indefinite useful life are not amortized, but tested for impairment at least annually. The Company has selected November 30 as the date to perform the annual impairment test. Intangible assets with definite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives to their estimated residual values. Goodwill is the only intangible asset with an indefinite life on the Company s balance sheet. The core deposit intangibles are intangible assets arising from either whole bank acquisitions or branch acquisitions. They are initially measured at fair value and then amortized over a ten-year period on an accelerated basis using the projected decay rates of the underlying core deposits. The trust intangible represents the value of the Trust business ( Trust ) acquired pursuant to the Company s January 27, 2012 acquisition of First Guaranty Bank and Trust of Jacksonville ( FGB ) in Jacksonville, Florida. The intangible was initially measured at fair value and then amortized over a ten-year period on an accelerated basis. (t) FDIC Indemnification Asset The FDIC Indemnification Asset represents the estimated amounts due from the FDIC pursuant to the Loss Share Agreements related to the acquisitions of the three failed banks acquired in 2010 and the two in 2012. The estimate represents the discounted value of the FDIC s reimbursed portion of the estimated losses the Company expects to realize on the loans and other real estate ( Covered Assets ) acquired as a result of the acquisitions. The range of discount rates used on the FDIC Indemnification Asset was 1.21% to 4.53%. As losses are realized on Covered Assets, the portion that the FDIC pays the Company in cash for principal and up to 90 days of interest reduces the FDIC Indemnification Asset. On a quarterly basis the Company will evaluate the FDIC Indemnification Asset to determine if the estimated losses on Covered Assets support the amount recorded as the FDIC Indemnification Asset. Income accretion is recognized during the loss share period. If the expectation of future losses decline, the income accretion is reduced prospectively. (u) Loan commitments and related financial instruments Financial instruments include off-balance sheet credit instruments, such as commitments to make loans and commercial letters of credit, issued to meet customer financing needs. The face amount for these items represents the exposure to loss, before considering customer collateral or ability to repay. Such financial instruments are recorded when they are funded. (v) Stock-based compensation Compensation cost is recognized for stock options and restricted stock awards issued to employees, based on the fair value of these awards at the date of grant. A Black-Scholes model is utilized to estimate the fair value of stock options, while the market price of the Company s common stock at the date of grant is used for restricted stock awards. Compensation cost is recognized over the required service period, generally defined as the vesting period. (w) Income taxes Income tax expense is the total of the current year income tax due or refundable and the change in deferred tax assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are the expected future tax amounts for the temporary differences between carrying amounts and tax bases of assets and liabilities, computed using enacted tax rates. A valuation allowance, if needed, reduces deferred tax assets to the amount expected to be realized. (Continued) 90 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 A tax position is recognized as a benefit only if it is more likely than not that the tax position would be sustained in a tax examination, with a tax examination being presumed to occur. The amount recognized is the largest amount of tax benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized on examination. For tax positions not meeting the more likely than not test, no tax benefit is recorded. The Company recognizes interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in other expenses. (x) Retirement plans Employee 401(k) plan expense is the amount of matching contributions. Deferred compensation and supplemental retirement plan expense allocates the benefits over years of service. (y) Marketing and advertising costs Marketing and advertising costs are expensed as incurred. (z) Earnings per common share Basic earnings per common share is net income divided by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. All outstanding unvested share-based payment awards that contain rights to nonforfeitable dividends are considered participating securities for this calculation. Diluted earnings per common share includes the dilutive effect of additional potential common shares issuable under stock options. Earnings and dividends per share are restated for all stock splits and stock dividends through the date of issuance of the financial statements. (aa) Comprehensive income Comprehensive income consists of net income and other comprehensive income. Other comprehensive income includes unrealized gains and losses on securities available for sale, which are also recognized as separate components of shareholders equity. (ab) Loss contingencies Loss contingencies, including claims and legal actions arising in the ordinary course of business, are recorded as liabilities when the likelihood of loss is probable and an amount or range of loss can be reasonably estimated. Management does not believe there now are such matters that will have a material effect on the financial statements. (ac) Restrictions on cash Cash on hand or on deposit with the Federal Reserve Bank is generally required to meet regulatory reserve and clearing requirements. (ad) Dividend restriction Banking regulations require maintaining certain capital levels and may limit the dividends paid by the banks to the holding company or by the holding company to stockholders. (Continued) 91 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (ae) Fair value of financial instruments Fair values of financial instruments are estimated using relevant market information and other assumptions, as more fully disclosed in a separate note. Fair value estimates involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment regarding interest rates, credit risk, prepayments, and other factors, especially in the absence of broad markets for particular items. Changes in assumptions or in market conditions could significantly affect the estimates. (af) Segment reporting The Company s correspondent banking and bond sales division represents a distinct reportable segment which differs from the Company s primary business of commercial and retail banking in central Florida. Accordingly, a reconciliation of reportable segment revenues, expenses and profit to the Company s consolidated total has been presented in note 26. (ag) Derivatives The Company enters into interest rate swaps in order to provide commercial loan clients the ability to swap from fixed to variable interest rates. Under these agreements, the Company enters into a fixed-rate loan with a client in addition to a swap agreement. This swap agreement effectively converts the client s fixed rate loan into a variable rate. The Company then enters into a matching swap agreement with a third party dealer in order to offset its exposure on the customer swap. The Company does not use derivatives for trading purposes. The derivative transactions are considered instruments with no hedging designation, otherwise known as stand-alone derivatives. Changes in the fair value of the derivatives are reported currently in earnings. (ah) Reclassifications Some items in the prior year financial statements were reclassified to conform to the current presentation. Reclassifications had no effect on prior years net income or shareholders equity. (ai) Effect of new pronouncements In May, 2011, the FASB issued an amendment to achieve common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements between U.S. and International accounting principles. Overall, the guidance is consistent with existing U.S. accounting principles; however, there are some amendments that change a particular principle or requirement for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments in this guidance are effective during interim and annual periods beginning after December 15, 2011. The effect of adopting this new guidance was not material. In June 2011, the FASB amended existing guidance and eliminated the option to present the components of other comprehensive income as part of the statement of changes in shareholder s equity. The amendment requires that comprehensive income be presented in either a single continuous statement or in two separate consecutive statements. The amendments in this guidance are effective as of the beginning of a fiscal reporting year, and interim periods within that year, that begins after December 15, 2011. The adoption of this new guidance changed the presentation of comprehensive income. We now present comprehensive income in a single continuous statement with net income. All prior year presentations have been conformed to the current year. (Continued) 92 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 In September 2011, the FASB amended guidance on the annual goodwill impairment test performed by the Company. Under the amended guidance, the Company will have the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform a two-step impairment test. If the Company believes, as a result of the qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than the carrying value, the quantitative impairment test is required. If the Company believes the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than the carrying value, no further testing is required. A company can choose to perform the qualitative assessment on some or none of its reporting entities. The amended guidance includes examples of events and circumstances that might indicate that a reporting unit s fair value is less than its carrying amount. These include macro-economic conditions such as deterioration in the entity s operating environment, entity-specific events such as declining financial performance, and other events such as an expectation that a reporting unit will be sold. The amended guidance is effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011. The effect of adopting this new guidance was not material. In October 2012, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued guidance on the subsequent accounting for an indemnification asset recognized at the acquisition date as a result of a government assisted acquisition of a financial institution. When an entity recognizes such an indemnification asset and subsequently a change in the cash flows expected to be collected on the indemnification asset occurs as a result of a change in the cash flows expected to be collected on the indemnified asset, the guidance requires the entity to recognize the change in the measurement of the indemnification asset on the same basis as the indemnified assets. Any amortization of changes in value of the indemnification asset should be limited to the lesser of the term of the indemnification agreement and the remaining life of the indemnified assets. The amendments are effective for fiscal years beginning on or after December 15, 2012 and early adoption is permitted. The amendments are to be applied prospectively to any new indemnification assets acquired after the date of adoption and to indemnification assets existing as of the date of adoption arising from a government-assisted acquisition of a financial institution. The Company does not expect the impact of this amendment on the consolidated financial statements to be material. (2) Trading Securities During the third quarter of 2009, the Company initiated a trading securities portfolio at its lead subsidiary bank. Realized and unrealized gains and losses are included in trading securities revenue, a component of non interest income. Securities purchased for this portfolio have primarily been municipal securities. A list of the activity in this portfolio for 2012 and 2011 is summarized below. 2012 2011 Beginning balance $ $ 2,225 Purchases 367,105 249,430 Proceeds from sales (362,747 ) (252,140 ) Net realized gain on sales 715 485 Mark to market adjustment (25 ) Ending balance $ 5,048 $ (Continued) 93 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (3) Investment Securities Available for Sale All of the mortgage backed securities ( MBS ) listed below are residential FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA MBSs. The fair value of available for sale securities and the related gross unrealized gains and losses recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were as follows: December 31, 2012 Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Obligations of U.S. government agencies and government sponsored enterprises $ 7,465 $ 81 $ $ 7,546 Mortgage backed securities 364,014 9,247 71 373,190 Municipal securities 42,570 2,504 52 45,022 Total $ 414,049 $ 11,832 $ 123 $ 425,758 December 31, 2011 Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Fair Value Obligations of U.S. government agencies and government sponsored enterprises $ 78,455 $ 422 $ $ 78,877 Mortgage backed securities 464,237 7,309 552 470,994 Municipal securities 39,312 2,141 160 41,293 Total $ 582,004 $ 9,872 $ 712 $ 591,164 Sales of available for sale securities were as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Proceeds $ 168,809 $ 173,337 $ 235,273 Gross gains $ 2,706 $ 3,595 $ 7,056 Gross losses $ 283 $ 131 $ 22 The tax provisions related to these net realized gains were $912, $1,303 and $2,647, respectively. The fair value and amortized cost of available for sale securities at year end 2012 by contractual maturity were as follows. Mortgage-backed securities are not due at a single maturity date and are shown separately. Fair Value Amortized Cost Investment securities available for sale Due in one year or less $ 978 $ 975 Due after one year through five years 1,669 1,520 Due after five years through ten years 15,886 15,238 Due after ten years through thirty years 34,035 32,302 Mortgage backed securities 373,190 364,014 $ 425,758 $ 414,049 (Continued) 94 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Securities pledged at December 31, 2012 and 2011 had a carrying amount (estimated fair value) of $108,737 and $147,620, respectively. These securities were pledged primarily to secure public deposits and repurchase agreements. At year-end 2012 and 2011, there were no holdings of securities of any one issuer, other than the U.S. Government and its agencies, in an amount greater than 10% of stockholders equity. The following tables show the Company s investments gross unrealized losses and fair value, aggregated by investment category and length of time the individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position, at December 31, 2012 and 2011. December 31, 2012 Less than 12 months 12 months or more Total Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Obligations of U.S. government agencies and government sponsored enterprises $ $ $ $ $ $ Mortgage backed securities 30,840 71 30,840 71 Municipal securities 2,180 52 2,180 52 Total temporarily impaired securities $ 33,020 $ 123 $ $ $ 33,020 $ 123 December 31, 2011 Less than 12 months 12 months or more Total Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Fair Value Unrealized Losses Obligations of U.S. government agencies and government sponsored enterprises $ $ $ $ $ $ Mortgage backed securities 96,004 552 96,004 552 Municipal securities 4,426 152 597 8 5,023 160 Total temporarily impaired securities $ 100,430 $ 704 $ 597 $ 8 $ 101,027 $ 712 Mortgage-backed securities: At December 31, 2012, 100% of the mortgage-backed securities held by the Company were issued by U.S. government-sponsored entities and agencies, primarily Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, and Ginnie Mae, institutions which the government has affirmed its commitment to support. Because the decline in fair value is attributable to changes in interest rates and illiquidity, and not credit quality, and because the Company does not have the intent to sell these mortgage-backed securities and it is likely that it will not be required to sell the securities before their anticipated recovery, the Company does not consider these securities to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2012. Municipal securities: Unrealized losses on municipal securities have not been recognized into income because the issuers bonds are of high quality, and because management does not intend to sell these investments or more likely than not will not be required to sell these investments before their anticipated recovery. The fair value is expected to recover as the securities approach maturity. (Continued) 95 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (4) Loans Major categories of loans included in the loan portfolio as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 are: December 31, 2012 2011 Loans not covered by FDIC loss share agreements: Real estate: Residential $ 428,554 $ 405,923 Commercial 480,494 447,459 Land, development, construction 55,474 89,517 Total real estate 964,522 942,899 Commercial 124,225 126,064 Consumer and other loans 51,279 51,391 1,140,026 1,120,354 Less: Deferred loan origination fees, net 458 639 Less: Allowance for loan losses for noncovered loans 24,033 27,585 Net loans not covered by FDIC loss share agreements 1,115,535 1,092,130 Loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements: Real estate: Residential 142,480 99,270 Commercial 134,413 54,184 Land, development, construction 13,259 8,231 Total real estate 290,152 161,685 Commercial 6,143 2,366 296,295 164,051 Less: Allowance for loan losses for covered loans 2,649 359 Net loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements 293,646 163,692 Total net loans $ 1,409,181 $ 1,255,822 (Continued) 96 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Changes in the allowance for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, are below. The FTB loan segment is not presented separately due to immateriality. The segment is included in the residential real estate segment in each of the applicable disclosures presented. Real Estate Loans Residential Commercial Land, develop., construction Comm. Industrial Consumer Other Total Loans not covered by FDIC loss share agreements: Twelve months ended December 31, 2012 Beginning of the period $ 6,700 $ 8,825 $ 9,098 $ 1,984 $ 978 $ 27,585 Charge-offs (3,968 ) (2,862 ) (4,646 ) (231 ) (807 ) (12,514 ) Recoveries 378 871 604 22 157 2,032 Provisions 3,721 1,438 1,155 (30 ) 646 6,930 Balance at December 31, 2012 $ 6,831 $ 8,272 $ 6,211 $ 1,745 $ 974 $ 24,033 Twelve months ended December 31, 2011 Beginning of the period $ 7,704 $ 8,587 $ 6,893 $ 2,182 $ 901 $ 26,267 Charge-offs (9,306 ) (11,179 ) (7,717 ) (1,971 ) (1,091 ) (31,264 ) Charge-offs loan sales (3,019 ) (11,153 ) (456 ) (220 ) (14,848 ) Recoveries 542 665 251 82 258 1,798 Provisions 10,779 21,905 10,127 1,911 910 45,632 Balance at December 31, 2011 $ 6,700 $ 8,825 $ 9,098 $ 1,984 $ 978 $ 27,585 Twelve months ended December 31, 2010 Beginning of the period $ 5,840 $ 9,378 $ 4,887 $ 2,023 $ 1,161 $ 23,289 Charge-offs (4,306 ) (8,131 ) (4,994 ) (774 ) (523 ) (18,728 ) Charge-offs loan sales (8,361 ) (8,361 ) Recoveries 178 42 167 11 45 443 Provisions 5,992 15,659 6,833 922 218 29,624 Balance at December 31, 2010 $ 7,704 $ 8,587 $ 6,893 $ 2,182 $ 901 $ 26,267 Loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements: Twelve months ended December 31, 2012 Beginning of the period $ 82 $ 223 $ 40 $ 14 $ $ 359 Charge-offs 0 Charge-offs loan sales 0 Recoveries 0 Provisions (82 ) 2,112 (40 ) 300 2,290 Balance at December 31, 2012 $ $ 2,335 $ $ 314 $ $ 2,649 Twelve months ended December 31, 2011 Beginning of the period $ $ $ $ $ $ Charge-offs (293 ) (293 ) Charge-offs loan sales Recoveries 293 293 Provisions 82 223 40 14 359 Balance at December 31, 2011 $ 82 $ 223 $ 40 $ 14 $ $ 359 Twelve months ended December 31, 2010 Beginning of the period $ $ $ $ $ $ Charge-offs Charge-offs loan sales Recoveries Provisions Balance at December 31, 2010 $ $ $ $ $ $ (Continued) 97 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table presents the balance in the allowance for loan losses and the recorded investment in loans by portfolio segment and based on impairment method as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. Accrued interest receivable and unearned fees/costs are not included in the recorded investment because it is not material. Real Estate Loans As of December 31, 2012 Residential Commercial Land, develop, constr Comm. industrial Consumer other Total Allowance for loan losses: Ending allowance balance attributable to loans: Individually evaluated for impairment $ 610 $ 277 $ 107 $ 1 $ 27 $ 1,022 Collectively evaluated for impairment 6,221 7,995 6,104 1,744 947 23,011 Acquired with deteriorated credit quality 2,335 314 2,649 Total ending allowance balance $ 6,831 $ 10,607 $ 6,211 $ 2,059 $ 974 $ 26,682 Loans: Individually evaluated for impairment 9,936 32,860 1,520 3,470 393 48,179 Collectively evaluated for impairment 418,618 447,634 53,954 120,755 48,154 1,089,115 Acquired with deteriorated credit quality 142,480 134,413 13,259 6,143 2,732 299,027 Total ending loans balance $ 571,034 $ 614,907 $ 68,733 $ 130,368 $ 51,279 $ 1,436,321 Real Estate Loans As of December 31, 2011 Residential Commercial Land, develop, constr Comm. industrial Consumer other Total Allowance for loan losses: Ending allowance balance attributable to loans: Individually evaluated for impairment $ 783 $ 188 $ 2,292 $ 1 $ 40 $ 3,304 Collectively evaluated for impairment 5,917 8,637 6,806 1,983 912 24,255 Acquired with deteriorated credit quality 82 223 40 14 26 385 Total ending allowance balance $ 6,782 $ 9,048 $ 9,138 $ 1,998 $ 978 $ 27,944 Loans: Individually evaluated for impairment 10,647 24,213 11,955 6,333 520 53,668 Collectively evaluated for impairment 395,276 423,246 77,562 119,731 49,479 1,065,294 Acquired with deteriorated credit quality 99,270 54,184 8,231 2,366 1,392 165,443 Total ending loans balance $ 505,193 $ 501,643 $ 97,748 $ 128,430 $ 51,391 $ 1,284,405 (Continued) 98 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following is a summary of information regarding impaired loans at December 31, 2012 and 2011: Individually impaired loans were as follows: December 31, 2012 2011 Impaired loans with no allocated allowance for loan losses $ 37,435 $ 40,465 Impaired loans with allocated allowance for loan losses 10,744 13,203 Total impaired loans $ 48,179 $ 53,668 Amount of the allowance for loan losses allocated to impaired loans $ 1,022 $ 3,304 Performing Trouble Debt Restructurings (TDRs) $ 8,841 $ 6,554 Nonperforming TDRs, included in nonperforming loans 5,819 5,807 Total TDRs (TDRs are required to be included in impaired loans) $ 14,660 $ 12,361 Impaired loans that are not TDRs 33,519 41,307 Total impaired loans $ 48,179 $ 53,668 Troubled Debt Restructurings: In this current real estate environment it has become more common to restructure or modify the terms of certain loans under certain conditions (i.e. troubled debt restructure or TDRs ). In those circumstances it may be beneficial to restructure the terms of a loan and work with the borrower for the benefit of both parties, versus forcing the property into foreclosure and having to dispose of it in an unfavorable real estate market. When we have modified the terms of a loan, we usually either reduce the monthly payment and/or interest rate for generally twelve to twenty-four months. We have not forgiven any material principal amounts on any loan modifications to date. We have approximately $14,660 of TDRs. Of this amount $8,841 are performing pursuant to their modified terms, and $5,819 are not performing and have been placed on non-accrual status and included in our nonperforming loans ( NPLs ). December 31, Troubled debt restructured loans ( TDRs ): 2012 2011 Performing TDRs $ 8,841 $ 6,554 Non performing TDRs 5,819 5,807 Total TDRs $ 14,660 $ 12,361 TDRs as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 quantified by loan type classified separately as accrual (performing loans) and non-accrual (nonperforming loans) are presented in the table below. As of December 31, 2012 Accruing Non-Accrual Total Real estate loans: Residential $ 6,446 $ 1,778 $ 8,224 Commercial 1,589 3,701 5,290 Land, development, construction 202 231 433 Total real estate loans 8,237 5,710 13,947 Commercial 315 5 320 Consumer and other 289 104 393 Total TDRs $ 8,841 $ 5,819 $ 14,660 (Continued) 99 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 As of December 31, 2011 Accruing Non-Accrual Total Real estate loans: Residential $ 4,894 $ 4,270 $ 9,164 Commercial 692 1,200 1,892 Land, development, construction 208 233 441 Total real estate loans 5,794 5,703 11,497 Commercial 344 344 Consumer and other 416 104 520 Total TDRs $ 6,554 $ 5,807 $ 12,361 Our policy is to return non-accrual TDR loans to accrual status when all the principal and interest amounts contractually due, pursuant to its modified terms, are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured. Our policy also considers the payment history of the borrower, but is not dependent upon a specific number of payments. The Company recorded a provision for loan loss expense of $1,163 and $1,054 and partial charge offs of $854 and $1,790 on the TDR loans described above during the periods ending December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Loans are modified to minimize loan losses when we believe the modification will improve the borrower s financial condition and ability to repay the loan. We typically do not forgive principal. We generally either reduce interest rates or decrease monthly payments for a temporary period of time and those reductions of cash flows are capitalized into the loan balance. We may also extend maturities, convert balloon loans to longer term amortizing loans, or vice versa, or change interest rates between variable and fixed rate. Each borrower and situation is unique and we try to accommodate the borrower and minimize the Company s potential losses. Approximately 60% of our TDRs are current pursuant to their modified terms, and about $5,819, or approximately 40% of our total TDRs are not performing pursuant to their modified terms. There does not appear to be any significant difference in success rates with one type of concession versus another. The following table presents loans by class modified as TDRs for which there was a payment default within twelve months following the modification during the years ending December 31, 2012 and 2011. Year ending December 31, 2012 Year ending December 31, 2011 Number of loans Recorded investment Number of loans Recorded investment Residential 10 $ 758 3 $ 563 Commercial real estate 4 2,567 Land, development, construction 4 156 Commercial Consumer and other 1 45 2 56 Total 19 $ 3,526 5 $ 619 The Company recorded $815 and $1 in provision for loan loss expense and $657 and $0 in partial charge offs on TDR loans that subsequently defaulted as described above during the years ending December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company has allocated $851 and $954 of specific reserves to customers whose loan terms have been modified in troubled debt restructurings as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. The Company has not committed to lend additional amounts to customers with outstanding loans that are classified as troubled debt restructurings. (Continued) 100 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table presents loans individually evaluated for impairment by class of loans as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 excluding loans acquired from the FDIC with evidence of credit deterioration and covered by FDIC loss share agreements, which are evaluated on a pool basis. The recorded investment is less than the unpaid principal balance primarily due to partial charge-offs. As of December 31, 2012 Unpaid principal balance Recorded investment Allowance for loan losses allocated With no related allowance recorded: Residential real estate $ 1,712 $ 1,712 $ Commercial real estate 33,789 31,171 Land, development, construction 2,042 1,087 Commercial 3,556 3,465 Consumer, other With an allowance recorded: Residential real estate 8,624 8,224 610 Commercial real estate 1,742 1,689 277 Land, development, construction 664 433 107 Commercial 5 5 1 Consumer, other 395 393 27 Total $ 52,529 $ 48,179 $ 1,022 As of December 31, 2011 Unpaid principal balance Recorded investment Allowance for loan losses allocated With no related allowance recorded: Residential real estate $ 4,314 $ 3,402 $ Commercial real estate 26,966 23,854 Land, development, construction 11,665 6,888 Commercial 6,409 6,321 Consumer, other With an allowance recorded: Residential real estate 7,733 7,245 783 Commercial real estate 404 359 188 Land, development, construction 5,713 5,067 2,292 Commercial 12 12 1 Consumer, other 545 520 40 Total $ 63,761 $ 53,668 $ 3,304 (Continued) 101 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 December 31, 2012 Average of impaired loans during the period Interest income recognized during impairment Cash basis interest income recognized Real estate loans: Residential $ 10,136 $ 306 $ Commercial 29,877 1,215 Land, development, construction 3,888 23 Total real estate loans 43,901 1,544 Commercial loans 4,175 110 Consumer and other loans 439 17 Total $ 48,515 $ 1,671 $ December 31, 2011 Average of impaired loans during the period Interest income recognized during impairment Cash basis interest income recognized Real estate loans: Residential $ 13,035 $ 261 $ Commercial 40,403 855 Land, development, construction 14,348 118 Total real estate loans 67,786 1,234 Commercial loans 6,144 262 Consumer and other loans 572 21 Total $ 74,502 $ 1,517 $ December 31, 2010 Average of impaired loans during the period $ 82,695 Interest income recognized during the period 2,330 Cash basis interest income recognized 2,234 The following tables presents the recorded investment in nonaccrual loans and loans past due over 90 days still on accrual by class of loans as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 excluding loans acquired from the FDIC with evidence of credit deterioration and covered by FDIC loss share agreements: As of December 31, 2012 Nonaccrual Loans past due over 90 days still accruing Residential real estate $ 9,993 $ Commercial real estate 11,459 Land, development, construction 2,032 Commercial 1,650 Consumer, other 314 293 Total $ 25,448 $ 293 (Continued) 102 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 As of December 31, 2011 Nonaccrual Loans past due over 90 days still accruing Residential real estate $ 14,810 $ Commercial real estate 11,637 Land, development, construction 10,482 Commercial 1,464 Consumer, other 465 120 Total $ 38,858 $ 120 The following tables presents the aging of the recorded investment in past due loans as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, excluding loans acquired from the FDIC with evidence of credit deterioration and covered by FDIC loss share agreements: Accruing Loans As of December 31, 2012 Total 30 - 59 days past due 60 - 89 days past due Greater than 90 days past due Total Past Due Loans Not Past Due Nonaccrual Loans Residential Real Estate $ 428,554 $ 1,632 $ 677 $ $ 2,309 $ 416,252 $ 9,993 Commercial Real Estate 480,494 1,663 1,147 2,810 466,225 11,459 Land/Dev/Construction 55,474 115 624 739 52,703 2,032 Commercial 124,225 203 416 619 121,956 1,650 Consumer 51,279 456 489 293 1,238 49,727 314 $ 1,140,026 $ 4,069 $ 3,353 $ 293 $ 7,715 $ 1,106,863 $ 25,448 Accruing Loans As of December 31, 2011 Total 30 - 59 days past due 60 - 89 days past due Greater than 90 days past due Total Past Due Loans Not Past Due Nonaccrual Loans Residential Real Estate $ 405,923 $ 5,551 $ 2,228 $ $ 7,779 $ 383,334 $ 14,810 Commercial Real Estate 447,459 4,479 1,037 5,516 430,306 11,637 Land/Dev/Construction 89,517 1,018 216 1,234 77,801 10,482 Commercial 126,064 781 119 900 123,700 1,464 Consumer 51,391 636 192 120 948 49,978 465 $ 1,120,354 $ 12,465 $ 3,792 $ 120 $ 16,377 $ 1,065,119 $ 38,858 Credit Quality Indicators: The Company categorizes loans into risk categories based on relevant information about the ability of borrowers to service their debt such as: current financial information, historical payment experience, credit documentation, public information, and current economic trends, among other factors. The Company analyzes loans individually by classifying the loans as to credit risk. This analysis includes loans with an outstanding balance greater than $500 and non-homogeneous loans, such as commercial and commercial real estate loans. This analysis is performed on at least an annual basis. The Company uses the following definitions for risk ratings: Special Mention: Loans classified as special mention have a potential weakness that deserves management s close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may result in deterioration of the repayment prospects for the loan or of the institution s credit position at some future date. (Continued) 103 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Substandard: Loans classified as substandard are inadequately protected by the current net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any. Loans so classified have a well-defined weakness or weaknesses that jeopardize the liquidation of the debt. They are characterized by the distinct possibility that the institution will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected. Doubtful: Loans classified as doubtful have all the weaknesses inherent in those classified as substandard, with the added characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions, and values, highly questionable and improbable. Loans not meeting the criteria above that are analyzed individually as part of the above described process are considered to be pass rated loans. Loans listed as not rated are either less than $500 or are included in groups of homogeneous loans. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and based on the most recent analysis performed, the risk category of loans by class of loans, excluding loans with evidence of deterioration of credit quality purchased from the FDIC and covered by FDIC loss share agreements, is as follows: As of December 31, 2012 Loan Category Pass Special Mention Substandard Doubtful Residential Real Estate $ 400,244 $ 4,797 $ 23,513 $ Commercial Real Estate 394,238 44,933 41,323 Land/Dev/Construction 39,650 11,994 3,830 Commercial 114,067 3,978 6,180 Consumer 49,894 613 772 $ 998,093 $ 66,315 $ 75,618 $ As of December 31, 2011 Loan Category Pass Special Mention Substandard Doubtful Residential Real Estate $ 373,833 $ 6,723 $ 25,367 $ Commercial Real Estate 363,376 52,161 31,922 Land/Dev/Construction 61,854 13,070 14,593 Commercial 111,782 4,314 9,968 Consumer 49,693 689 1,009 $ 960,538 $ 76,957 $ 82,859 $ The Company considers the performance of the loan portfolio and its impact on the allowance for loan losses. For residential and consumer loan classes, the Company also evaluates credit quality based on the aging status of the loan, which was previously presented, and by payment activity. The following table presents the recorded investment in residential and consumer loans, excluding loans with evidence of deterioration of credit quality purchased from the FDIC and covered by FDIC loss share agreements, based on payment activity as of December 31, 2012 and 2011: As of December 31, 2012 Residential Consumer Performing $ 418,561 $ 50,672 Nonperforming 9,993 607 Total $ 428,554 $ 51,279 (Continued) 104 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 As of December 31, 2011 Residential Consumer Performing $ 391,113 $ 50,806 Nonperforming 14,810 585 Total $ 405,923 $ 51,391 Purchased Loans: Income recognized on loans purchased from the FDIC is recognized pursuant to ASC Topic 310-30. A portion of the fair value discount has been ascribed as an accretable yield that is accreted into interest income over the estimated remaining life of the loans. The remaining non-accretable difference represents cash flows not expected to be collected. The table below summarizes the total contractually required principal and interest cash payments, management s estimate of expected total cash payments and carrying value of the loans as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. Contractually required principal and interest payments have been adjusted for estimated prepayments. December 31, 2012 2011 Contractually required principal and interest $ 534,989 $ 291,531 Non-accretable difference (142,855 ) (51,536 ) Cash flows expected to be collected 392,134 239,995 Accretable yield (93,107 ) (74,552 ) Carrying value of acquired loans $ 299,027 $ 165,443 Allowance for loan losses (2,649 ) (385 ) Carrying value less allowance for loan losses $ 296,378 $ 165,058 $2,290 and $385 of the allowance for loan losses was recognized in the loan loss provision during 2012 and 2011, respectively. There were reversals in the loan loss allowance of $293 for recoveries in 2011 and none for 2012. The Company adjusted its estimates of future expected losses, cash flows and renewal assumptions during the current year. These adjustments resulted in an increase in expected cash flows and accretable yield, and a decrease in the non-accretable difference. The Company reclassified approximately $16,483 from non-accretable difference to accretable yield during the twelve month period ending December 31, 2012 to reflect the adjusted estimates of future expected cash flows. The Company also recognized approximately $24,379 of accretion income during the twelve month period ending December 31, 2012. The tables below summarize the changes in total contractually required principal and interest cash payments, management s estimate of expected total cash payments and carrying value of the loans during period ending December 31, 2012. Balance at Effect of income all other Balance at December 31, 2011 acquisitions accretion adjustments December 31, 2012 Contractually required principal and interest $ 291,531 $ 363,130 $ $ (119,672 ) $ 534,989 Non-accretable difference (51,536 ) (115,165 ) 23,846 (142,855 ) Cash flows expected to be collected 239,995 247,965 (95,826 ) 392,134 Accretable yield (74,552 ) (33,507 ) 24,379 (9,427 ) (93,107 ) Carry value of acquired loans $ 165,443 $ 214,458 $ 24,379 $ (105,253 ) $ 299,027 (Continued) 105 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (5) FDIC indemnification asset The activity in the FDIC loss share indemnification asset which resulted from the July 16, 2010 acquisition of Olde Cypress Community Bank, the August 20, 2010 acquisitions of the Community National Bank of Bartow and Independent National Bank in Ocala, the January 20, 2012 acquisition of Central Florida State Bank and the January 27, 2012 acquisition of First Guaranty Bank Trust loss share agreements is as follows: 2012 2011 Beginning of the year $ 50,642 $ 59,456 Effect of acquisition 85,088 Discount accretion/(amortization) (3,096 ) (503 ) Indemnification revenue 4,185 845 Indemnification of foreclosure expense 2,425 2,177 Proceeds from FDIC (21,787 ) (11,620 ) Impairment of loan pool 1,832 287 End of the year $ 119,289 $ 50,642 Impairment of loan pools Loan pools covered by FDIC loss share agreements were impaired by $2,290 which was an expense included in our loan loss provision expense. The 80% FDIC reimbursable amount of this expense ($1,832) was included in the Company s non interest income and as an increase in the Company s FDIC indemnification asset. Indemnification revenue Indemnification revenue represents approximately 80% of the cost incurred pursuant to the repossession process and losses incurred on the sale of OREO, or writedown of OREO values to current fair value, and are included in non-interest income. These costs are reimbursable from the FDIC. Losses on the sale of OREO, or writedown of OREO to current fair value are included in non-interest expense. Discount accretion If expected cash flows from loan pools are greater than previously expected, the accretable yield increases and is accreted into interest income over the remaining lives of the related loan pools. The increase in future accretable income may result in less reimbursement from the FDIC (i.e. if the expected losses decrease, then the expected reimbursements from the FDIC decrease). The expected decrease in FDIC reimbursements is amortized over the lesser of the term of the indemnification agreement and the remaining life of the indemnification asset. Discount accretion also includes the increase in present value of the FDIC indemnification asset due to the passage of time. Indemnification of foreclosure expense Indemnification of foreclosure expense represents approximately 80% of the foreclosure related expenses incurred and reimbursable from the FDIC. Foreclosure expense is included in non interest expense. The amount of the reimbursable portion of the expense reduces foreclosure expense included in non interest expense. (Continued) 106 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (6) Other real estate owned Other real estate owned means real estate acquired through or instead of loan foreclosure. Activity in the valuation allowance was as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Beginning of year $ 4,680 $ 2,650 $ 1,704 Valuation write down of repossessed real estate 4,258 6,751 2,951 Sales and/or dispositions (3,531 ) (4,721 ) (2,005 ) End of year $ 5,407 $ 4,680 $ 2,650 Expenses related to foreclosed real estate include: 2012 2011 2010 Loss on sale of repossessed real estate $ 1,185 $ 545 $ 756 Valuation write down of repossessed real estate 4,258 6,751 2,951 Operating expenses, net of rental income 4,008 4,268 2,113 Total $ 9,451 $ 11,564 $ 5,820 (7) Fair value Generally accepted accounting principles establish a fair value hierarchy which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The standard describes three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value: Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets that the entity has the ability to access as of the measurement date. Level 2: Significant other observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data. Level 3: Significant unobservable inputs that reflect a reporting entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability. The fair values of securities available for sale are determined by obtaining quoted prices on nationally recognized securities exchanges (Level 1 inputs) or matrix pricing, which is a mathematical technique widely used in the industry to value debt securities without relying exclusively on quoted prices for the specific securities but rather by relying on the securities relationship to other benchmark quoted securities (Level 2 inputs). The fair values of trading securities are determined as follows: (1) for those securities that have traded prior to December 31, 2012 but have not settled (date of sale) until after such date, the sales price is used as the fair value; and, (2) for those securities which have not traded as of December 31, 2012, the fair value was determined by broker price indications of similar or same securities (Level 2 inputs). Securities purchases for this portfolio are municipal securities. (Continued) 107 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The mortgage backed securities held by the Company were issued by U. S. government sponsored entities and agencies. Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis are summarized below. The fair value of derivatives is based on valuation models using observable market data as of the measurement date (Level 2). Fair value measurements using Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1) Significant Other Observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) at December 31, 2012 Assets: Trading securities $ 5,048 $ 5,048 Available for sale securities U.S. government sponsored entities and agencies 7,546 7,546 Mortgage backed securities 373,190 373,190 Municipal securities 45,022 45,022 Interest rate swap derivatives 1,131 1,131 Liabilities: Interest rate swap derivatives 2,014 2,014 at December 31, 2011 Assets: Trading securities $ $ Available for sale securities U.S. government sponsored entities and agencies 78,877 78,877 Mortgage backed securities 470,994 470,994 Municipal securities 41,293 41,293 Interest rate swap derivatives 1,061 1,061 Liabilities: Interest rate swap derivatives 1,972 1,972 The fair value of impaired loans with specific valuation allowance for loan losses and other real estate owned is based on recent real estate appraisals less estimated costs of sale. For residential real estate impaired loans and other real estate owned, appraised values are based on the comparative sales approach. For commercial and commercial real estate impaired loans and other real estate owned, appraisers may use either a single valuation approach or a combination of approaches such as comparative sales, cost or the income approach. A significant unobservable input in the income approach is the estimated income capitalization rate for a given piece of collateral. At December 31, 2012, the range of capitalization rates utilized to determine the fair value of the underlying collateral ranged from 8% to 11%. Adjustments to comparable sales may be made by the appraiser to reflect local market conditions or other economic factors and may result in changes in the fair value of a given asset over time. As such, the fair value of impaired loans and other real estate owned are considered a Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. (Continued) 108 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis are summarized below. Fair value measurements using Quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1) Significant other observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) at December 31, 2012 Assets: Impaired loans Residential real estate $ 837 $ 837 Commercial real estate 8,379 8,379 Land, land development and construction 1,103 1,103 Commercial 905 905 Consumer 84 84 Other real estate owned Residential real estate $ 582 $ 582 Commercial real estate 5,933 5,933 Land, land development and construction 4,445 4,445 Bank owned real estate held for sale 2,482 2,482 at December 31, 2011 Assets: Impaired loans Residential real estate $ 2,963 $ 2,963 Commercial real estate 7,434 7,434 Land, land development and construction 7,638 7,638 Commercial 688 688 Consumer 43 43 Other real estate owned Residential real estate $ 1,733 $ 1,733 Commercial real estate 2,948 2,948 Land, land development and construction 2,767 2,767 Impaired loans with specific valuation allowances had a recorded investment of $11,678, with a valuation allowance of $370, at December 31, 2012, and a recorded investment of $21,294, with a valuation allowance of $2,528, at December 31, 2011. The Company recorded a provision for loan loss expense of $2,501 and $9,246 on these loans during the years ending 2012 and 2011, respectively. Other real estate owned had a decline in fair value of $4,258 and $6,751 during the twelve month periods ending December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Changes in fair value were recorded directly as an adjustment to current earnings through non interest expense. Bank owned real estate held for sale represents three branch office buildings which the Company has closed and transferred customer accounts to the nearest existing branch. The real estate was transferred out of the Bank Premises and Equipment category into bank owned property held for sale and included in Prepaid Expenses and Other Assets category in the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet during the current year. The real estate was transferred at the lower of amortized cost or fair value less estimated costs to sell. Total impairment charge recognized during the year ending December 31, 2012 was $614, and was included in Other Expenses in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Income. (Continued) 109 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Fair Value of Financial Instruments The methods and assumptions, not previously presented, used to estimate fair value are described as follows: Cash and Cash Equivalents : The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate fair values and are classified as Level 1. FHLB and FRB Stock : It is not practical to determine the fair value of FHLB and FRB stock due to restrictions placed on their transferability. Loans held for sale : The fair value of loans held for sale is estimated based upon binding contracts from third party investors resulting in a Level 2 classification. Loans, net : Fair value of loans was estimated by a third party specialist in connection with the Company s goodwill impairment analysis resulting in a Level 3 classification. Impaired loans are valued at the lower of cost or fair value as described previously. The methods utilized to estimate the fair value of loans do not necessarily represent an exit price. FDIC Indemnification Asset : It is not practical to determine the fair value of the FDIC indemnification asset due to restrictions placed on its transferability. Accrued Interest Receivable : The carrying amount of accrued interest receivable approximates fair value and is classified as Level 3. Deposits : The fair values disclosed for demand deposits (e.g., interest and non-interest checking, savings, and money market accounts) are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand at the reporting date (i.e., their carrying amount) resulting in Level 1 classification. Fair values for fixed rate certificates of deposit are estimated using a discounted cash flows calculation that applies interest rates currently being offered on certificates to a schedule of aggregated expected monthly maturities on time deposits resulting in a Level 2 classification. Short-term Borrowings : The carrying amounts of federal funds purchased, borrowings under repurchase agreements, and other short-term borrowings (note payable), generally maturing within ninety days, approximate their fair values resulting in a Level 2 classification. Corporate Debentures : The fair values of the Company s corporate debentures are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses based on the current borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements resulting in a Level 3 classification. Accrued Interest Payable : The carrying amount of accrued interest payable approximates fair value resulting in a Level 2 classification. Off-balance Sheet Instruments : The fair value of off-balance-sheet items is not considered material. (Continued) 110 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table presents the carry amounts and estimated fair values of the Company s financial instruments: Fair value measurements at December 31, 2012 Carrying amount Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 136,748 $ 136,748 $ $ $ 136,748 Trading securities 5,048 5,048 5,048 Investment securities available for sale 425,758 425,758 425,758 FHLB and FRB stock 9,749 n/a Loans held for sale 2,709 2,709 2,709 Loans, less allowance for loan losses of $26,682 1,409,181 1,324,630 1,324,630 FDIC indemnification asset 119,289 n/a Interest rate swap derivatives 1,131 1,131 1,131 Accrued interest receivable 6,100 6,100 6,100 Financial liabilities: Deposits without stated maturities $ 1,521,928 $ 1,521,928 $ $ $ 1,521,928 Deposits with stated maturities 475,304 483,220 483,220 Securities sold under agreement to repurchase 18,792 18,792 18,792 Federal funds purchased (correspondent bank deposits) 38,932 38,932 38,932 Corporate debentures 16,970 8,477 8,477 Interest rate swap derivatives 2,014 2,014 2,014 Accrued interest payable 579 579 579 At December 31, 2011 Carrying Amount Fair Value Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 151,095 $ 151,095 Investment securities available for sale 591,164 591,164 FHLB and FRB stock 10,804 n/a Loans held for sale 3,741 3,741 Loans, less allowance for loan losses of $27,944 1,255,822 1,185,089 FDIC indemnification asset 50,642 50,642 Interest rate swap derivatives 1,061 1,061 Accrued interest receivable 6,929 6,929 Financial liabilities: Deposits without stated maturities $ 1,312,871 $ 1,312,871 Deposits with stated maturities 606,918 616,238 Securities sold under agreement to repurchase 14,652 14,652 Federal funds purchased (correspondent bank deposits) 54,624 54,624 Corporate debentures 16,945 8,367 Interest rate swap derivatives 1,972 1,972 Accrued interest payable 778 778 (Continued) 111 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (8) Bank Premises and Equipment A summary of bank premises and equipment as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, is as follows: December 31, 2012 2011 Land $ 32,642 $ 33,712 Land improvements 823 833 Buildings 55,065 49,220 Leasehold improvements 2,867 2,046 Furniture, fixtures and equipment 26,278 24,849 Construction in progress 5,832 7,277 123,507 117,937 Less: Accumulated depreciation 25,553 23,579 $ 97,954 $ 94,358 The Company leases land and certain facilities under noncancellable operating leases. The following is a schedule of future minimum annual rentals under the noncancellable operating leases: Year ending December 31, 2013 $ 1,571 2014 1,286 2015 817 2016 746 2017 754 Thereafter 2,385 $ 7,559 Rent expense, net of rental income, for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, was $1,455, $1,212 and $1,245, respectively, and is included in occupancy expense in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Operations. Rental income for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, was $507, $487, and $527, respectively, and is included in occupancy expense. (9) Goodwill and Intangible Assets Goodwill was a result of whole bank acquisitions, all within the Company s commercial and retail banking segment. The change in balance for goodwill during the years 2012, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Beginning of year $ 38,035 $ 38,035 $ 32,840 Acquired goodwill 6,889 5,195 Impairment End of year $ 44,924 $ 38,035 $ 38,035 The annual impairment analysis of the goodwill recorded at the commercial and retail banking ( Bank ) reporting unit as of November 30, 2012, indicated that the Step 2 analysis was necessary. Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the impairment loss, if any. Step 2 requires that the implied fair value of the bank reporting unit goodwill be compared to the carrying amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount of the bank reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that goodwill, an impairment loss shall be recognized in (Continued) 112 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 an amount equal to that excess. After performing Step 2 it was determined that the implied value of goodwill was not less than the carrying amount and no impairment loss was recognized during the year ended December 31, 2012. In the step 2 analysis, management based the fair value estimate of the loan portfolio on a valuation performed by a third party specialist. The estimated fair value of land and buildings was based upon third party real estate appraisals. The fair value of the reporting unit at November 30, 2012 was estimated based upon the fair value determined by a composite estimate of a discounted cash flow estimate of the bank reporting unit s fair value, stock market capitalization, and deal value to tangible ratios book value observed in recent comparable banking sector merger and acquisition transactions. Acquired intangible assets consists of core deposit intangibles ( CDI ) and Trust intangible ( Trust ) which are intangible assets arising from either whole bank or branch acquisitions. They are initially measured at fair value and then amortized over a ten-year period on an accelerated basis using the projected decay rates of the underlying core deposits in the case of CDI and an accelerated method in the case of the Trust intangible. The change in balance for CDI and the Trust during the years 2012, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Beginning of year $ 5,203 $ 3,921 $ 2,422 Acquired CDI 1,896 2,086 2,018 Acquired Trust 1,580 Amortization expense (1,372 ) (804 ) (519 ) Impairment expense End of year $ 7,307 $ 5,203 $ 3,921 Acquired intangible assets were as follows for years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011: December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Amortization Amortized intangible assets: Core deposit intangibles $ 11,607 $ 5,663 $ 9,711 $ 4,508 Trust intangible 1,580 217 Total acquired intangibles $ 13,187 $ 5,880 $ 9,711 $ 4,508 Estimated amortization expense for each of the next five years: 2013 $ 1,186 2014 1,061 2015 977 2016 950 2017 754 (Continued) 113 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (10) Deposits A detail of deposits at December 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows: December 31, 2012 Weighted Average Interest Rate 2011 Weighted Average Interest Rate Non-interest bearing deposits $ 519,510 % $ 423,128 % Interest bearing deposits: Interest bearing demand deposits 452,961 0.1 % 344,303 0.1 % Savings deposits 238,216 0.1 % 205,387 0.2 % Money market accounts 311,241 0.1 % 340,053 0.3 % Time deposits less than $100,000 229,598 1.3 % 263,997 1.5 % Time deposits of $100,000 or greater 245,706 1.5 % 342,921 1.8 % $ 1,997,232 0.4 % $ 1,919,789 0.6 % The following table presents the amount of certificate accounts at December 31, 2012, maturing during the periods reflected below: Year Amount 2013 $ 287,530 2014 85,423 2015 78,861 2016 13,791 2017 8,661 Thereafter 1,038 Total $ 475,304 (11) Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase The Company s subsidiary bank enters into borrowing arrangements with their retail business customers by agreements to repurchase ( repurchase agreements ) under which the bank pledges investment securities owned and under its control as collateral against the one-day borrowing arrangement. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had $18,792 and $14,652 in repurchase agreements. Repurchase agreements are secured by U.S. treasury securities and obligations of U.S. government agencies and government sponsored enterprises with fair values of $41,142 and $42,929 at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Information concerning repurchase agreements is summarized as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Average daily balance during the year $ 21,388 $ 15,949 $ 21,254 Average interest rate during the year 0.40 % 0.53 % 0.42 % Maximum month-end balance during the year $ 24,989 $ 18,652 $ 25,367 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.40 % 0.47 % 0.50 % (Continued) 114 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (12) Federal Funds Purchased Federal funds purchased, as listed below, are overnight deposits from correspondent banks. Information concerning these deposits is summarized as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Average daily balance during the year $ 53,803 $ 70,940 $ 105,344 Average interest rate during the period 0.05 % 0.07 % 0.10 % Maximum month-end balance during the year $ 82,473 $ 92,111 $ 139,032 Weighted average interest rate at year end 0.05 % 0.05 % 0.10 % (13) Federal Home Loan Bank advances and other borrowed funds From time to time, the Company borrows either through Federal Home Loan Bank advances or Federal Funds Purchased, other than correspondent bank deposits listed in note 12 above. The Company had no advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank during the periods ending December 31, 2012 and 2011. Advances are collateralized by residential and commercial loans under a blanket lien arrangement and based on this collateral, and the Company s holdings of FHLB stock, the Company is eligible to borrow up to $110,227 at year end 2012. (14) Note Payable On January 25, 2012, the Company borrowed $10,000 on a short term basis at the holding company level to help facilitate the acquisition from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) of Central Florida State Bank ( Central FL ) and First Guaranty Bank Trust ( FGB ) during January 2012 by its subsidiary bank. The Company invested those funds in its subsidiary bank such that the bank would have sufficient capital to support the initial balance sheets of the two acquired banks. Subsequent to the acquisitions, the Company exercised its option to reprice approximately $127,856 of internet time deposits assumed pursuant to the acquisition of FGB to current market interest rates. Subsequently, all of these deposits were withdrawn prior to maturity without penalty. By shrinking the balance sheet of its subsidiary bank, the Company freed up excess capital at the bank which returned the funds to the holding company in the form of a dividend on July 2, 2012. The Company then used these funds to immediately repay the note. The interest rate on the note was 90 day LIBOR plus 400 bps. (15) Corporate Debenture In September 2003, the Company formed CenterState Banks of Florida Statutory Trust I (the Trust ) for the purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. On September 22, 2003, the Company issued a floating rate corporate debenture in the amount of $10,000. The Trust used the proceeds from the issuance of a trust preferred security to acquire the corporate debenture. The trust preferred security essentially mirrors the corporate debenture, carrying a cumulative preferred dividend at a variable rate equal to the interest rate on the corporate debenture (three month LIBOR plus 305 basis points). The corporate debenture and the trust preferred security each have 30-year lives. The trust preferred security and the corporate debenture are callable by the Company or the Trust, at their respective option after five years, and sooner in specific events, subject to prior approval by the Federal Reserve, if then required. The Company has treated the corporate debenture as Tier 1 capital up to the maximum amount allowed under the Federal Reserve guidelines for federal regulatory purposes. The Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of this Trust (variable interest entity), therefore the trust is not consolidated in the Company s financial statements, but rather the subordinated debentures are shown as a liability. The Company s investment in the common stock of the trust was $310 and is included in other assets. In September 2004, Valrico Bancorp Inc. ( VBI ) formed Valrico Capital Statutory Trust ( Valrico Trust ) for the purpose of issuing trust preferred securities. On September 9, 2004, VBI issued a floating rate corporate debenture (Continued) 115 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 in the amount of $2,500. The Trust used the proceeds from the issuance of a trust preferred security to acquire the corporate debenture. On April 2, 2007, the Company acquired all the assets and assumed all the liabilities of VBI pursuant to the merger agreement, including VBI s corporate debenture and related trust preferred security discussed above. The trust preferred security essentially mirrors the corporate debenture, carrying a cumulative preferred dividend at a variable rate equal to the interest rate on the corporate debenture (three month LIBOR plus 270 basis points). The corporate debenture and the trust preferred security each have 30-year lives. The trust preferred security and the corporate debenture are callable by the Company or the Valrico Trust, at their respective option after five years, and sooner in specific events, subject to prior approval by the Federal Reserve, if then required. The Company has treated the corporate debenture as Tier 1 capital up to the maximum amount allowed under the Federal Reserve guidelines for federal regulatory purposes. The Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of this Trust (variable interest entity), therefore the trust is not consolidated in the Company s financial statements, but rather the subordinated debentures are shown as a liability. The Company s investment in the common stock of the trust was $77 and is included in other assets. In November 2011, the Company acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities of Federal Trust Corporation ( FTC ) from The Hartford Financial Services Group, Inc. ( Hartford ) pursuant to an acquisition agreement, including FTC s corporate debenture and related trust preferred security issued through FTC s finance subsidiary Federal Trust Statutory Trust ( FTC Trust). The trust preferred security essentially mirrors the corporate debenture, carrying a cumulative preferred dividend at a variable rate equal to the interest rate on the corporate debenture (three month LIBOR plus 295 basis points). The corporate debenture and the trust preferred security each have 30-year lives maturing in 2033. The trust preferred security and the corporate debenture are callable by the Company or the FTC Trust, at their respective option after five years, and sooner in specific events, subject to prior approval by the Federal Reserve, if then required. The Company has treated the corporate debenture as Tier 1 capital up to the maximum amount allowed under the Federal Reserve guidelines for federal regulatory purposes. The Company is not considered the primary beneficiary of this Trust (variable interest entity), therefore the trust is not consolidated in the Company s financial statements, but rather the subordinated debentures are shown as a liability. The Company s investment in the common stock of the trust was $155 and is included in other assets. (16) Income Taxes Allocation of federal and state income tax expense (benefit) between current and deferred portions for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, is as follows: Current Deferred Total December 31, 2012: Federal $ (32 ) $ 3,761 $ 3,729 State 271 625 896 $ 239 $ 4,386 $ 4,625 December 31, 2011: Federal $ (169 ) $ 2,818 $ 2,649 State 288 482 770 $ 119 $ 3,300 $ 3,419 December 31, 2010: Federal $ (1,772 ) $ (1,935 ) $ (3,707 ) State (202 ) (331 ) (533 ) $ (1,974 ) $ (2,266 ) $ (4,240 ) (Continued) 116 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The tax effect of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2012 and 2011, are presented below: December 31, 2012 2011 Deferred tax assets: Allowance for loan losses $ 9,975 $ 10,450 Deferred loan fees 172 230 Stock based compensation 440 411 Deferred compensation 1,705 1,180 Impairment expenses 459 290 Net operating loss carryforward 8,968 16,013 Other real estate owned expenses 2,678 2,300 Nonaccrual interest 629 887 Other 883 520 Total deferred tax asset 25,909 32,281 Deferred tax liabilities: Premises and equipment, due to differences in depreciation methods and useful lives (4,840 ) (3,772 ) Fair value adjustments (18,233 ) (21,273 ) Like kind exchange (293 ) (293 ) Unrealized gain on investment securities available for sale (4,404 ) (3,447 ) Accretion of discounts on investments (31 ) (45 ) Total deferred tax liability (27,801 ) (28,830 ) Net deferred tax (liability) asset $ (1,892 ) $ 3,451 At December 31, 2012, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $24,242 for Federal and $13,203 for state which will begin to expire in 2030. Deferred tax assets are recognized for net operating losses because the benefit is more likely than not to be realized. In assessing the realizability of deferred tax assets, management considers whether it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In performing this analysis, the Company considers all evidence currently available, both positive and negative, in determining whether based on the weight of that evidence, it is more likely than not the deferred tax asset will be realized. The ultimate realization of the net deferred tax assets is dependent upon the generation of future taxable income during the periods in which those temporary differences become deductible. Earnings forecasts were prepared for 2013 through 2016. These forecasts include projections of net interest income, non interest income, non interest expense, and the provision for loan losses. These forecasts also included the expected impact of cost savings initiatives, credit related costs, merger and acquisition related expenses, estimates of impaired loans, estimates of the levels of non performing assets and net charge-offs. Management s evaluation also considered the scheduled reversal of deferred tax liabilities, the Company s long history of profitability, and tax planning strategies in making this assessment. Based upon the level of historical taxable income improvements in the Company s credit quality trends, the reduction in non performing assets, projections for future taxable income over the periods in which the deferred tax assets are deductible, and the probability of achieving the projected taxable income, management believes it is more likely than not that the Company will realize the benefits of these deductible differences. (Continued) 117 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax of the states of Florida, Georgia, Alabama, Colorado, North Carolina, and Tennessee. The Company is no longer subject to examination by taxing authorities for the years before 2009. The Company has not paid any material interest or penalties in years 2010, 2011 and 2012. A reconciliation between the actual tax expense and the expected tax (benefit) expense, computed by applying the U.S. federal corporate rate of 34 percent is as follows: December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Expected tax (benefit) expense $ 4,940 $ 3,851 $ (3,459 ) Tax exempt interest, net (925 ) (856 ) (546 ) Bank owned life insurance (412 ) (329 ) (263 ) State income taxes, net of federal income tax benefits 591 508 (353 ) Stock based compensation 104 111 120 Other, net 327 134 261 $ 4,625 $ 3,419 $ (4,240 ) (17) Related-Party Transactions Loans to principal officers, directors, and their affiliates during 2012 and 2011 were as follows: 2012 2011 Beginning balance $ 22,941 $ 23,325 New loans 2,382 6,875 Effect of changes in composition of related parties (18,870 ) Repayments (2,496 ) (7,259 ) Ending balance $ 3,957 $ 22,941 At December 31, 2012 and 2011 principal officers, directors, and their affiliates had $1,257 and $6,680, respectively, of available lines of credit. Deposits from principal officers, directors, and their affiliates at year-end 2012 and 2011 were approximately $15,018 and $18,321, respectively. (18) Regulatory Capital Matters The Company and the Bank are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Company and the Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain off-balance-sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Company and the Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in the table below) of total and Tier I capital (as defined in the regulations) to risk-weighted assets. Management believes, as of December 31, 2012, that the Company and the Bank meet all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject. (Continued) 118 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 As of December 31, 2012, the most recent notification from the Office of Comptroller of the Currency and the FDIC categorized the Banks as well capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. To be categorized as well capitalized, the Banks must maintain total risk-based, Tier I risk-based and Tier I leverage ratios as set forth in the table. There are no conditions or events since that notification that management believes have changed the institution s category. A summary of actual, required, and capital levels necessary for capital adequacy purposes for the Company as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, are presented in the table below. There is no threshold for well-capitalized status for bank holding companies. Actual For capital adequacy purposes To be well capitalized under Prompt corrective action provision Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio December 31, 2012: Total capital (to risk weighted assets) $ 249,016 17.9 % $ 111,360 8 % n/a n/a Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets) 231,501 16.6 % 55,680 4 % n/a n/a Tier 1 capital (to average assets) 231,501 9.9 % 93,432 4 % n/a n/a December 31, 2011: Total capital (to risk weighted assets) $ 247,567 19.1 % $ 103,942 8 % n/a n/a Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets) 231,182 17.8 % 51,971 4 % n/a n/a Tier 1 capital (to average assets) 231,182 10.5 % 88,114 4 % n/a n/a A summary of actual, required, and capital levels necessary for capital adequacy purposes in the case of the each of the Company s subsidiary banks as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, are presented in the table below .. Valrico State Bank merged into CenterState Bank of Florida, N.A. in June 2012. Therefore, only regulatory capital ratios for December 31, 2011 are presented for Valrico State Bank. Actual For capital adequacy purposes To be well capitalized under prompt corrective action provision Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio December 31, 2012 CenterState Bank of Florida, N.A. Total capital (to risk weighted assets) $ 230,590 16.6 % $ 110,824 8 % $ 138,530 10 % Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets) 213,161 15.4 % 55,412 4 % 83,118 6 % Tier 1 capital (to average assets) 213,161 9.2 % 92,632 4 % 115,789 5 % (Continued) 119 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Actual For capital adequacy purposes To be well capitalized under prompt corrective action provision Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio December 31, 2011 CenterState Bank of Florida, N.A. Total capital (to risk weighted assets) $ 183,942 15.9 % $ 92,455 8 % $ 115,569 10 % Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets) 169,365 14.7 % 46,227 4 % 69,341 6 % Tier 1 capital (to average assets) 169,365 8.4 % 80,471 4 % 100,589 5 % Valrico State Bank Total capital (to risk weighted assets) 23,377 17.9 % 10,468 8 % 13,085 10 % Tier 1 capital (to risk weighted assets) 21,730 16.6 % 5,234 4 % 7,851 6 % Tier 1 capital (to average assets) 21,730 12.8 % 6,774 4 % 8,468 5 % (19) Dividends The Company declared and paid cash dividends on its common stock of $1,203, $1,201 and $1,116 during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Banking regulations limit the amount of dividends that may be paid by the subsidiary banks to the Company without prior approval of the Bank s regulatory agency. At December 31, 2012, dividends from the subsidiary bank available to be paid to the Company, without prior approval of the Bank s regulatory agency, was $28,370, subject to the Bank meeting or exceeding regulatory capital requirements. (20) Stock-Based Compensation On April 24, 2007, the Company s shareholders approved the CenterState 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2007 Plan ) and approved an amendment to the 2007 Plan on April 28, 2009. The 2007 Plan, as amended, replaces the 1999 Plan discussed below. The 2007 Plan, as amended, authorizes the issuance of up to 1,350,000 shares of the Company stock. Of this amount, 1,200,000 shares are allocated to employees, all of which may be issued as incentive stock options, and 150,000 shares are allocated to directors. During 2012, the Company granted employee incentive stock options for 57,500 shares, with an average exercise price of $6.87 per share, pursuant to this plan. Options were granted at fair market value of the underlying stock at date of grant. Each option expires ten years from the date of grant. These options vest over a nine year period. In addition to incentive stock options, the Company also awarded 54,500 shares of restricted stock with an average fair value of $6.87 per share at the date of grate. These restricted stock awards vest ratably over periods ranging from five to ten years. At December 31, 2012, there were a total of 313,333 shares available for future grants pursuant to this Plan. In 1999, the Company authorized 730,000 common shares for employees of the Company under an incentive stock option and non-statutory stock option plan (the 1999 Plan ). Options were granted at fair market value of the underlying stock at date of grant. Each option expires ten years from the date of grant. Options became 25% vested immediately as of the grant date and continued to vest at a rate of 25% on each anniversary date thereafter until fully vested. There were no stock options granted pursuant to the 1999 Plan subsequent to December 31, 2006. The 2007 Plan, discussed above, replaced the 1999 Plan. At December 31, 2012 there were 326,704 stock options outstanding which were granted pursuant to the 1999 Plan, all of which were currently exercisable. No future stock options will be granted from this Plan. In addition to the 1999 Plan, the Company assumed and converted the stock option plans of its subsidiary banks consistent with the terms and conditions of their respective merger agreements. These options are all vested and exercisable. At December 31, 2012, they represented exercisable options for 66,642 shares of the Company s common stock. (Continued) 120 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 In 2004, the Company s shareholders authorized an Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ESPP ). At December 31, 2011, there were no options outstanding pursuant to this plan, and no activity occurred subsequent to 2009 relating to the ESPP. In 2012, the plan was terminated by the Company s Board of Directors. The Company s stock-based compensation consists primarily of stock options and commencing in 2009 also includes restricted stock grants ( RSA ). During the twelve month period ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company recognized total stock-based compensation expense as listed in the table below. 2012 2011 2010 Stock option expense $ 363 $ 398 $ 425 RSA expense 268 307 274 Total stock-based compensation expense $ 631 $ 705 $ 699 There is no income tax benefit provided for in the Company s tax provision for qualified incentive stock options. The Company receives a tax benefit when a non qualified stock option is exercised. The total income tax benefit related to the exercise of non qualified stock options was approximately $0, $0 and $66 during the twelve month periods ending December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company provided an income tax benefit in its tax provision for RSA expenses of approximately $101, $115 and $103 during the twelve month periods ending December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. As of December 31, 2012, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock options, net of estimated forfeitures, was approximately $1,291 and will be recognized over the next nine years. The weighted average period over which this expense is expected to be recognized is approximately 3.0 years. As of December 31, 2012, the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested restricted grants, net of estimated forfeitures, was approximately $1,780 and will be recognized over the next nine years. The weighted average period over which this expense is expected to be recognized is approximately 4.1 years. The Company granted stock options for 57,500, 4,000 and 70,800 shares of common stock during the twelve month periods ending December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The estimated fair value of options granted during these periods were calculated as of the grant date using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. The weighted-average assumptions as of the grant date are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Expected option life 7.7 years 7.7 years 7.7 years Risk-free interest rate 1.08 % 1.60 % 2.96 % Expected volatility 44.3 % 42.8 % 31.9 % Dividend yield 0.62 % 0.69 % 0.38 % The Company determined the expected life of the stock options using the simplified method approach allowed for plain-vanilla share options as described in SAB 107. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect as of the grant date. Expected volatility was determined using historical volatility. ASC 718 requires the recognition of stock-based compensation for the number of awards that are ultimately expected to vest. As a result, for most awards, recognized stock compensation is reduced for estimated forfeitures prior to vesting. Estimated forfeitures will be reassessed in subsequent periods and may change based on new facts and circumstances. The weighted-average estimated fair value of stock options granted during the twelve month periods ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $3.09 per share, $2.46 per share and $4.25 per share respectively. (Continued) 121 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The table below present s information related to stock option activity for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010: 2012 2011 2010 Total intrinsic value of stock options exercised $ $ 13 $ 342 Cash received from stock options exercised 38 669 Gross income tax benefit from the exercise of stock options 66 A summary of stock option activity for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 December 31, 2010 Number of Options Weighted- Average Exercise Price Number of Options Weighted- Average Exercise Price Number of Options Weighted- Average Exercise Price Options outstanding, beginning of period 1,128,304 $ 14.03 1,265,054 $ 13.59 1,319,846 $ 13.39 Options granted 57,500 $ 6.87 4,000 $ 5.78 70,800 $ 10.76 Options exercised $ (14,903 ) $ 6.41 (90,592 ) $ 7.38 Options forfeited (27,158 ) $ 15.33 (125,847 ) $ 10.26 (35,000 ) $ 16.56 Options outstanding, end of period 1,158,646 $ 13.64 1,128,304 $ 14.03 1,265,054 $ 13.59 Number of Options Weighted- Average Exercise Price Weighted- Average Contractual Term Aggregate Intrinsic Value Options outstanding, December 31, 2012 1,158,646 $ 13.64 4.5 years $ 108 Options fully vested and expected to vest, December 31, 2012 1,069,512 $ 13.76 4.4 years $ 98 Options exercisable, December 31, 2012 703,706 $ 14.38 3.3 years $ 1 (21) Employee Benefit Plan Substantially all of the Company s employees are covered under it is 401(k) defined contribution retirement plan. Employees are eligible to participate in the plan after completing six months of continuous employment. The Company contributes an amount equal to a certain percentage of the employees contributions based on the discretion of the Board of Directors. In addition, the Company may also make additional contributions to the plan each year, subject to profitability and other factors, and based solely on the discretion of the Board of Directors. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, the Company s contributions to the plan were $1,144, $983 and $814, respectively, which are included in salary and benefits on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. In 2008, the Company entered into a salary continuation agreement with its chief executive officer. Five additional Company executive officers entered into salary continuation agreements during 2010. In 2007, an additional four pre-existing salary continuation agreements with certain Valrico State Bank s executive officers were assumed as part of the acquisition. The plans are nonqualified deferred compensation arrangements that are designed to provide supplemental retirement income benefits to participants. The Company expensed $501, $532 and $342 for the accrual of future salary continuation benefits in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Other liabilities included salary continuation benefits payable of $2,597, $2,096 and $1,563 at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. (Continued) 122 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 In 2007, the Company entered into deferred compensation arrangements, through Rabbi Trust agreements, with two Valrico State Bank s executive officers pursuant to the acquisition. The Rabbi Trust asset is included in other assets, and the related deferred compensation payable is included in other liabilities. The Rabbi Trust asset and the related deferred compensation payable at December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010 were $1,158, $1,034 and $986, respectively. Earnings from the Rabbi Trust increase the asset and increase the deferred compensation payable. Losses from the Rabbi Trust decrease the asset and decrease the deferred compensation payable. There is no net income statement effect other than the administration expenses of the Trust which approximates $5 per year. (22) Parent Company Only Financial Statements Condensed financial statements of CenterState Banks, Inc. (parent company only) follow: Condensed Balance Sheet December 31, 2012 and 2011 2012 2011 Assets: Cash and due from banks $ 270 $ 2,844 Inter-company receivable from bank subsidiaries 2,000 19,381 Investment in wholly-owned bank subsidiaries 272,691 240,046 Investment in other wholly-owned subsidiary 13,945 16,389 Prepaid expenses and other assets 5,838 4,293 Total assets $ 294,744 $ 282,953 Liabilities: Accounts payable and accrued expenses $ 4,243 $ 3,375 Corporate debenture 16,970 16,945 Total liabilities 21,213 20,320 Stockholders Equity: Common stock 301 301 Additional paid-in capital 228,952 228,342 Retained earnings 36,979 28,277 Accumulated other comprehensive income 7,299 5,713 Total stockholders equity 273,531 262,633 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 294,744 $ 282,953 (Continued) 123 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Condensed Statements of Operations Years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 2012 2011 2010 Other income $ 5 $ 559 $ Interest expense 835 448 421 Operating expenses 3,142 3,480 2,741 Loss before equity in net earnings of subsidiaries (3,972 ) (3,369 ) (3,162 ) Equity in net earnings (loss) of subsidiaries (net of income tax expense (benefit) of $6,073, $4,568 and ($2,843) at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively) 12,429 10,129 (3,935 ) Net income before income tax benefit 8,457 6,760 (7,097 ) Income tax benefit (1,448 ) (1,149 ) (1,159 ) Net income (loss) $ 9,905 $ 7,909 $ (5,938 ) Condensed Statements of Cash Flows Years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 2012 2011 2010 Cash flows from operating activities: Net (loss) income $ 9,905 $ 7,909 $ (5,938 ) Adjustments to reconcile net (loss) income to net cash used in operating activities: Equity in net loss (earnings) of subsidiaries (12,429 ) (10,129 ) 3,935 Increase (decrease) in payables and accrued expenses 893 466 131 Increase in other assets Stock based compensation expense (1,164 142 ) (837 203 ) (1,374 97 ) Net cash flows used in operating activities (2,653 ) (2,388 ) (3,149 ) Cash flows from investing activities: Inter-company receivables from subsidiary banks 29,282 (3,550 ) 32,581 Cash payments to VSB shareholders (151 ) (1 ) Cash payments to Mid FL shareholders (17 ) Net cash from bank acquisition 5,020 Investment in subsidiaries (28,000 ) 4,339 (61,528 ) Net cash flows provided by (used in) investing activities 1,282 5,658 (28,965 ) Cash flows from financing activities: Stock options exercised, net of tax benefit 96 735 Dividends paid to shareholders (1,203 ) (1,201 ) (1,116 ) Proceeds from public stock offering 32,872 Net cash flows (used in) provided by financing activities (1,203 ) (1,105 ) 32,491 Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (2,574 ) 2,165 377 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 2,844 679 302 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year $ 270 $ 2,844 $ 679 (Continued) 124 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (23) Credit Commitments The Company has outstanding at any time a significant number of commitments to extend credit. These arrangements are subject to strict credit control assessments and each customer s credit worthiness is evaluated on a case-by-case basis. A summary of commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit written at December 31, 2012 and 2011, are as follows: December 31, 2012 2011 Standby letters of credit $ 2,885 $ 4,477 Available lines of credit 108,525 130,600 Unfunded loan commitments fixed 14,509 6,776 Unfunded loan commitments variable 32,298 3,650 Because many commitments expire without being funded in whole or part, the contract amounts are not estimates of future cash flows. Credit risk represents the accounting loss that would be recognized at the reporting date if counterparties failed completely to perform as contracted. The credit risk amounts are equal to the contractual amounts, assuming that the amounts are fully advanced and that the collateral or other security is of no value. The Company s policy is to require customers to provide collateral prior to the disbursement of approved loans. The amount of collateral obtained, if it is deemed necessary by the Company upon extension of credit, is based on management s credit evaluation of the counterparty. Collateral held varies but may include accounts receivable, inventory, real estate and income providing commercial properties. Standby letters of credit are contractual commitments issued by the Company to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loan facilities to customers. Outstanding commitments are deemed to approximate fair value due to the variable nature of the interest rates involved and the short-term nature of the commitments. (24) Concentrations of Credit Risk Most of the Company s business activity is with customers located within Osceola, Orange, Pasco, Hernando, Citrus, Sumter, Lake, Hillsborough, Polk, Okeechobee, Indian River, Saint Lucie, Hendry, Marion, Putnam, Seminole, Volusia and Duval Counties of the State of Florida and portions of adjacent counties. The majority of commercial and mortgage loans are granted to customers doing business or residing in these areas. Generally, commercial loans are secured by real estate, and mortgage loans are secured by either first or second mortgages on residential or commercial property. As of December 31, 2012, substantially all of the Company s loan portfolio was secured. Although the Company has a diversified loan portfolio, a substantial portion of its debtors ability to honor their contracts is dependent upon the economy of those Counties listed above and portions of adjacent counties. The Company does not have significant exposure to any individual customer or counterparty. (Continued) 125 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (25) Basic and Diluted Earnings Per Share Basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the periods. Diluted earnings per share includes the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the periods and the further dilution from stock options using the treasury method. There were an average of 1,143,598, 1,128,304, and 1,265,054 stock options that were anti-dilutive during the years ending December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, respectively. The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted earnings per share computations for the periods presented. 2012 2011 2010 Numerator for basic and diluted earnings per share: Net income (loss) $ 9,905 $ 7,909 $ (5,938 ) Net income available for common shareholders $ 9,905 $ 7,909 $ (5,938 ) Denominator: Denominator for basic earnings per share - weighted-average shares 30,073,959 30,034,573 27,608,211 Effect of dilutive securities: Employee stock based compensation awards 67,904 4,614 Denominator for diluted earnings per share - adjusted weighted-average shares 30,141,863 30,039,187 27,608,211 Basic earnings (loss) per share $ 0.33 $ 0.26 $ (0.22 ) Diluted earnings (loss) per share $ 0.33 $ 0.26 $ (0.22 ) (26) Reportable segments The Company s reportable segments represent the distinct product lines the Company offers and are viewed separately for strategic planning purposes by management. The tables below are reconciliations of the reportable segment revenues, expenses, and profit as viewed by management to the Company s consolidated total for the year ending December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. Year ending December 31, 2012 Commercial and retail banking Correspondent banking and bond sales division Corporate overhead and administration Elimination entries Total Interest income $ 90,899 $ 4,051 $ 94,950 Interest expense (7,617 ) (28 ) (836 ) (8,481 ) Net interest income 83,282 4,023 (836 ) 86,469 Provision for loan losses (9,220 ) (9,220 ) Other non interest income 23,550 35,707 4 59,261 Other non interest expense (90,671 ) (28,168 ) (3,141 ) (121,980 ) Net income (loss) before taxes 6,941 11,562 (3,973 ) 14,530 Income tax (provision) benefit (1,722 ) (4,351 ) 1,448 (4,625 ) Net income (loss) $ 5,219 $ 7,211 ($ 2,525 ) $ 9,905 Total assets $ 2,204,176 $ 153,289 $ 294,744 ($ 288,969 ) $ 2,363,240 (Continued) 126 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Year ending December 31, 2011 Commercial and retail banking Correspondent banking and bond sales division Corporate overhead and administration Elimination entries Total Interest income $ 78,373 $ 3,870 $ $ 82,243 Interest expense (11,711 ) (48 ) (448 ) (12,207 ) Net interest income 66,662 3,822 (448 ) 70,036 Provision for loan losses (45,985 ) (6 ) 0 (45,991 ) Other non interest income 74,347 27,066 559 101,972 Other non interest expense (87,327 ) (23,883 ) (3,479 ) (114,689 ) Net income (loss) before taxes 7,697 6,999 (3,368 ) 11,328 Income tax (provision) benefit (2,021 ) (2,633 ) 1,235 (3,419 ) Net income (loss) $ 5,676 $ 4,366 ($ 2,133 ) $ 7,909 Total assets $ 2,115,552 $ 164,660 $ 282,954 ($ 278,707 ) $ 2,284,459 Year ending December 31, 2010 Commercial and retail banking Correspondent banking and bond sales division Corporate overhead and administration Elimination entries Total Interest income $ 69,493 $ 5,087 $ $ 74,580 Interest expense (16,201 ) (120 ) (421 ) (16,742 ) Net interest income 53,292 4,967 (421 ) 57,838 Provision for loan losses (29,619 ) (5 ) (29,624 ) Other non interest income 20,619 34,314 54,933 Other non interest expense (61,747 ) (28,837 ) (2,741 ) (93,325 ) Net (loss) income before taxes (17,455 ) 10,439 (3,162 ) (10,178 ) Income tax benefit (provision) 7,009 (3,928 ) 1,159 4,240 Net (loss) income $ (10,446 ) $ 6,511 $ (2,003 ) $ (5,938 ) Total assets $ 1,928,144 $ 137,772 $ 267,682 $ (270,674 ) $ 2,062,924 Commercial and retail banking : The Company s primary business is commercial and retail banking. Currently, the Company operates through one subsidiary bank and a non bank subsidiary, R4ALL, with 55 locations in eighteen counties throughout Central Florida providing traditional deposit and lending products and services to its commercial and retail customers. Correspondent banking and bond sales division : Operating as a division of the Company s subsidiary bank, its primary revenue generating activities are as follows: 1) the first, and largest, revenue generator is commissions earned on fixed income security sales; 2) the second category includes: spread income earned on correspondent bank deposits (i.e., federal funds purchased) and service fees on correspondent bank checking accounts; and, 3) the third, and smallest revenue generating category, includes fees from safe-keeping activities, bond accounting services for correspondents, and asset/liability consulting related activities. The customer base includes small to medium size financial institutions primarily located in Florida, Alabama and Georgia. (Continued) 127 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Corporate overhead and administration : Corporate overhead and administration is comprised primarily of compensation and benefits for certain members of management, interest on parent company debt, office occupancy and depreciation of parent company facilities, merger related costs and other expenses. (27) Business combinations The acquisitions were accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations . Both the purchased assets and liabilities assumed are recorded at their respective acquisition date fair values. Determining the fair values of assets and liabilities, especially the loan portfolio and foreclosed real estate, is a complicated process involving significant judgment regarding methods and assumptions used to calculate estimated fair value. Acquisition of Central Florida State Bank and First Guaranty Bank Trust The Company, through its subsidiary bank, purchased two failed financial institutions from the FDIC. On January 20, 2012 it purchased Central Florida State Bank ( Central FL ) in Belleview, Florida. On January 27, it purchased First Guaranty Bank Trust ( FGB ) in Jacksonville, Florida. The acquisition related costs of Central FL and FGB were approximately $583 and $1,463, respectively, and these expenses are reported in merger and acquisition related expenses in the consolidated statement of income. As a result of these acquisitions, the Company expects to further solidify its market share in the Florida market, expand its customer base to enhance deposit fee income, and reduce operating costs through economies of scale. The Company exercised its option, pursuant to the FDIC purchase and assumption agreement, not to purchase Central FL s branch real estate. During the first quarter of 2012, the Company consolidated three of the four Central FL branches into nearby existing CenterState branches. The fourth branch was consolidated into a nearby CenterState existing branch during July 2012. The Company also exercised its option, pursuant to the FDIC purchase and assumption agreement, and did not purchase six of the eight branch real estate locations of FGB. It has purchased two of the offices and consolidated the remaining six branches into the remaining two existing branches, which have approximately 75% of FGB s deposits as of the acquisition date, during the second quarter of 2012. The two office locations were purchased at current market value based on current appraisals. (Continued) 128 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 All of the goodwill and other intangibles listed below is tax deductible over a 15 year period on a straight line basis. The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition. Acquired institution Date of acquisition Central FL Jan 20, 2012 FGB Jan 27, 2012 Assets: Cash due from banks, Federal Reserve Bank ( FRB ) and Federal Home Loan Bank ( FHLB ) $ 4,870 $ 77,642 Federal funds sold 8,550 Securities available for sale 1,942 3,500 Loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements 31,376 181,882 Loans not covered by FDIC loss share agreements 239 961 Covered repossessed real estate owned ( OREO ) 2,347 15,318 FDIC indemnification asset 15,018 70,070 FHLB stock and FRB stock 168 1,627 Goodwill 6,890 Core deposit intangible 375 1,521 Trust intangible 1,580 Other assets 1,109 2,742 Total assets acquired $ 65,994 $ 363,733 Liabilities: Deposits $ 65,209 $ 353,099 FHLB advances 10,060 Other liabilities 332 574 Total liabilities assumed $ 65,541 $ 363,733 Net assets acquired (bargain purchase gain) $ 453 Deferred tax impact (170 ) Net assets acquired, including deferred tax impact $ 283 The Company entered into loss share agreements with the FDIC that collectively cover legal unpaid balances of substantially all the loans acquired (except those loans identified above as not covered by FDIC loss share) and all the OREO acquired (collectively, the Covered Assets ). Pursuant to the terms of the loss sharing agreements, the FDIC s obligation to reimburse the Company for losses with respect to Covered Assets begins with the first dollar of loss incurred. The FDIC will reimburse the Company for 80% of losses with respect to the Covered Assets. The Company will reimburse the FDIC for its share of recoveries with respect to losses for which the FDIC paid the Company a reimbursement under the loss sharing agreements. The loss share agreements applicable to single family residential mortgage loans provide for FDIC loss sharing and Company reimbursement to the FDIC for recoveries for ten years. The loss share agreements applicable to commercial loans and other Covered Assets provides for FDIC loss sharing for five years and Company reimbursement to the FDIC for a total of eight years for recoveries. The acquisitions were accounted for under the acquisition method of accounting in accordance with ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations . Both the purchased assets and liabilities assumed are recorded at their respective acquisition date fair values. Determining the fair values of assets and liabilities, especially the loan portfolio and foreclosed real estate, is a complicated process involving significant judgment regarding methods and assumptions used to calculate estimated fair values. (Continued) 129 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 All of the loans acquired are being accounted for pursuant to ASC Topic 310-30. We arrived at this conclusion as follows. First, we segregated all acquired loans with specifically identified credit deficiency factor(s). The factors we used were all acquired loans that were non-accrual, 60 days or more past due, designated as Trouble Debt Restructured ( TDR ), graded special mention or substandard, had more than five 30 day past due notices or had any 60 day or 90 day past due notices during the loan term. For this disclosure purpose, we refer to these loans as Type A loans. As required by generally accepted accounting principles, we are accounting for these loans pursuant to ASC Topic 310-30. Second, all remaining acquired loans, those without specifically identified credit deficiency factors, we refer to as Type B loans for disclosure purposes, were then grouped into pools with common risk characteristics. These loans were then evaluated to determine estimated fair values as of the acquisition date. Although no specific credit deficiencies were identifiable, we believe there is an element of risk as to whether all contractual cash flows will be eventually received. Factors that were considered included the poor economic environment both nationally and locally as well as the unfavorable real estate market particularly in Florida. In addition, these loans were acquired from two failed financial institutions, which implies potentially deficient, or at least questionable, credit underwriting. Based on management s estimate of fair value, each of these pools was assigned a discount credit mark. We have applied ASC Topic 310-30 accounting treatment by analogy to Type B loans. The result is that all loans acquired from these two failed financial institutions will be accounted for under ASC Topic 310-30. The table below summarizes the total contractually required principal and interest cash payments, management s estimate of expected total cash payments and fair value of the loans as of the respective acquisition dates. Contractually required principal and interest payments have been adjusted for estimated prepayments. at acquisition dates Type A Type B loans loans Total Contractually required principal and interest $ 118,393 $ 244,737 $ 363,130 Non-accretable difference (57,632 ) (57,533 ) (115,165 ) Cash flows expected to be collected 60,761 187,204 247,965 Accretable yield (2,950 ) (30,557 ) (33,507 ) Total acquired loans $ 57,811 $ 156,647 $ 214,458 Type A loans: acquired loans with specifically identified credit deficiency factor(s). Type B loans: all other acquired loans. Income on acquired loans, whether Type As or Type Bs, is recognized in the same manner pursuant to ASC Topic 310-30. A portion of the fair value discount has been ascribed as an accretable yield that is accreted into interest income over the estimated remaining life of the loans. The remaining non-accretable difference represents cash flows not expected to be collected. The operating results of the Company for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2012 includes the operating results of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities since the acquisition date of January 20, 2012 for Central FL and January 27, 2012 for FGB. Due primarily to the significant amount of fair value adjustments and the Loss Share Agreements now in place, historical results of Central FL and FGB are not believed to be relevant to the Company s results, and thus no pro forma information is presented. (Continued) 130 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Measurement period adjustments On January 27, 2012 the Company purchased FGB. As previously disclosed, the fair values initially assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were preliminary and subject to refinement for up to one year after the closing date of the acquisition as new information relative to closing date fair values became available. Based on appraisals received subsequent to the acquisition date, the Company adjusted its initial fair value estimates of certain non-performing loans acquired. Jan 27, 2012 (as initially reported) measurement period adjustments Jan 27, 2012 (as adjusted) Assets: Cash due from banks, Federal Reserve Bank and Federal Home Loan Bank $ 77,642 $ $ 77,642 Securities available for sale 3,500 3,500 Loans covered by FDIC loss share agreements 171,949 9,933 181,882 Loans not covered by FDIC loss share agreements 961 961 Covered repossessed real estate owned 15,318 15,318 FDIC indemnification asset 78,148 (8,078 ) 70,070 FHLB stock 1,627 1,627 Goodwill 8,745 (1,855 ) 6,890 Core deposit intangible 1,521 1,521 Trust intangible 1,580 1,580 Other assets 2,742 2,742 Total assets acquired $ 363,733 $ $ 363,733 Liabilities: Deposits $ 353,099 $ $ 353,099 FHLB advances 10,060 10,060 Other liabilities 574 574 Total liabilities assumed $ 363,733 $ $ 363,733 Acquisition of certain assets and liabilities On January 20, 2011 the Company completed its previously announced transaction as described in the Purchase and Assumption Agreement dated as of August 8, 2010 by and among CenterState, Carolina First Bank and, to the extent provided therein, The South Financial Group, Inc. and TD Bank, National Association (the P A Agreement). The reason for this transaction is as follows. The seller had recently entered into several acquisition transactions and pursuant to certain concentration of deposit regulations, was required to divest a certain amount of deposit liabilities in Putnam County, Florida. CenterState (purchaser) was in a position to assist them with this divesture, if the seller was willing to sell performing loans, selected by CenterState, and to sell them at a discount with a put back option. Pursuant to the P A Agreement, CenterState acquired deposits with an estimated fair value of approximately $115,283, two branch offices and assumed the leases on an additional two branch offices within Putnam County, Florida. CenterState did not pay a premium for the deposits and purchased the two owned branches for approximately $700. In addition, CenterState purchased performing loans with an estimated fair value of approximately $119,387 previously selected by CenterState and located within CenterState s fourteen County market areas within Central Florida. CenterState purchased the performing loans for 90% of their face value amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest. During the two year period following the closing of this transaction and (Continued) 131 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 subject to the terms of the P A Agreement, CenterState may put back to TD Bank N.A. ( TD ) any acquired loan that (1) becomes more than 30 days delinquent or (2) becomes classified as nonaccrual, substandard, doubtful, or loss in accordance with applicable regulatory standards for loss classification. The loans acquired pursuant to this transaction are not being accounted for pursuant to ASC Topic 310-30. We arrived at this conclusion because none of these loans have specifically identifiable or implied credit deficiencies associated with them. We base this on the results of our due diligence team who reviewed and selected only qualified performing loans rejecting approximately 80% of the potential loan pool offered in terms of dollars. That is, our team looked at a total loan population of approximately $800 million in order to identify enough qualified loans to fill the $120 million target amount. In addition, the Company has the option during a two year period to put back any loan that becomes 30 days past due or becomes adversely classified, as discussed previously. This transaction has a different fact pattern than the three FDIC fail banks we purchased during the third quarter of 2010. The loans we purchased pursuant to the FDIC failed bank transactions are being accounted for pursuant to ASC Topic 310-30 because we acquired all the loans in those troubled loan portfolios. These loans had either specifically identifiable credit deficiencies factors or implied factors such that we believed there to be an element of elevated risk as to whether all contractual cash flows will eventually be received. In this case, the loans were not hand selected from fourteen counties within Central Florida, but acquired as an entire portfolio in a single county. This is a combined loan portfolio of three failed financial institutions, which implies potentially deficient, or at least questionable, credit underwriting. The following table summarizes the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the date of acquisition: Assets: Cash $ 724 Cash due from seller 3,624 Loans, net 119,388 Interest receivable 357 Premises and equipment 731 Put back option 876 CDI 851 Other assets 3 Total assets acquired $ 126,554 Liabilities: Deposits $ 115,283 Interest payable 131 Other liabilities 11 Total liabilities assumed $ 115,425 Net assets acquired (bargain purchase gain) $ 11,129 Deferred tax impact 4,188 Net assets acquired, including deferred tax impact $ 6,941 The operating results of the Company for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2011 includes the operating results of the acquired assets and liabilities assumed since the acquisition date of January 20, 2011 for the branches purchased from TD. Historical results of the branches acquired are unavailable. As a result, no pro forma information is presented. (Continued) 132 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Acquisition of Federal Trust Corporation On November 1, 2011 the Company completed its previously announced transaction as set forth in the Agreement with The Hartford Insurance Group ( Hartford ), and Federal Trust Corporation ( FTC ), whereby FTC merged with and into the Company. Pursuant to and simultaneously with the merger of FTC with and into the Company, FTC s wholly owned subsidiary bank, Federal Trust Bank ( FTB ), merged with and into the Company s lead bank, CenterState Bank of Florida, N.A. ( Bank ). Pursuant to the terms of the Agreement, the Company purchased approximately $161,450 of selected performing loans. The purchase price of the loans was approximately $117,993 or 73% of their outstanding unpaid principal balance ( UPB ). The estimated fair market value of the purchased loans, as of the purchase date was approximately $156,803. The Company has the option, for a period of one year beginning November 1, 2011, to put back to Hartford any loan that is 30 days past due or is adversely classified pursuant to bank regulatory guidelines. The Company acquired five of FTB s 11 banking offices. Four were purchased at market value based on current appraisals, approximately $3,860, and the Company assumed the existing lease on the fifth location. The other six offices were closed by FTB immediately prior to the acquisition date. All of the deposits, approximately $197,221, were assumed by the Bank. The majority of the deposits were from the five branches acquired. The Company did not pay a premium for the deposits assumed. The Company also assumed a $5,000 Corporate Debenture issued by FTC which qualifies for Tier 1 capital. Interest payments are due quarterly at a rate of LIBOR plus 2.95%. The instrument matures in 2033. The Acquisition increased the Company s total assets and total deposits by approximately 12% and 12%, respectively, as compared with the balances at December 31, 2010, and is expected to positively affect the Company s operating results, to the extent the Company earns more from interest earning assets than it pays in interest on its interest bearing liabilities. The ability of the Company to successfully collect interest and principal on loans acquired will also impact cash flows and operating results. Hartford had purchased FTC and its wholly owned subsidiary, FTB, in June 2009, for the primary purpose of accessing TARP funds. With the worst of the financial crises over and with the changes in the bank regulatory environment, Hartford desired to purge itself of FTC. CenterState helped Hartford resolve its ownership in FTC under certain terms and conditions which resulted in CenterState recognizing a bargain purchase price at the acquisition date. CenterState s reasons for the transaction was a relatively large gain on the transaction date with acceptable risk on the downside (only performing loans were acquired at a deep discount, with a one year put back option) and the Company s desire to further solidify its market share in the central Florida market, expand its customer base to enhance deposit fee income and reduce operating cost through economies of scale. (Continued) 133 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The list below summarizes the fair value of the assets purchased and liabilities assumed as of the November 1, 2011 purchase date. Cash and cash items $ 73,228 Loans 156,803 Interest receivable 647 Branch real estate 3,860 Furniture and fixtures 140 FHLB stock 4,243 Bank owned life insurance 8,113 Prepaid FDIC insurance 2,287 Core deposit intangible 1,235 Receivable from Hartford 404 Other assets 472 Total assets acquired $ 251,432 Deposits $ 197,841 Interest payable 80 Official checks outstanding 1,564 Escrow deposits 1,341 Trust Preferred Security 4,440 Other liabilities 275 Total liabilities assumed $ 205,541 Net assets acquired (bargain purchase gain) $ 45,891 Deferred tax impact $ 17,269 Net assets acquired, including deferred tax impact $ 28,622 The operating results of the Company for the twelve month period ended December 31, 2011 includes the operating results of FTC since the acquisition date of November 1, 2011. The following table presents pro-forma information as if the acquisition had occurred at the beginning of 2010 and 2011. The pro-forma information includes adjustments for interest income on loans acquired, amortization of intangibles arising from the transaction, depreciation expense on property acquired, interest expense on deposits acquired, and the related income tax effects. The pro-forma financial information is not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that would have occurred had the transactions been effected on the assumed dates. 2011 2010 Net interest income $ 81,354 $ 79,288 Net loss $ (23,436 ) $ (126,395 ) EPS basic $ (0.78 ) $ (4.58 ) EPS diluted $ (0.78 ) $ (4.58 ) The Company omitted pro-forma income statements for the year ending December 31, 2009. Providing these statements would result in irrelevant and potentially misleading information. (Continued) 134 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Dollar amounts in thousands, except per share data) December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (28) Capital offering On July 27, 2010, the Company raised approximately $35,190 through a previously announced public offering by issuing 4,140,000 shares of common stock, including 540,000 shares pursuant to the exercise of the underwriters over-allotment option. The net proceeds of the offering, after all expenses including underwriters fees, were approximately $32,872. (29) Derivatives The Company enters into interest rate swaps in order to provide commercial loan clients the ability to swap from fixed to variable interest rates. Under these agreements, the Company enters into a fixed-rate loan with a client in addition to a swap agreement. This swap agreement effectively converts the client s fixed rate loan into a variable rate. The Company then enters into a matching swap agreement with a third party dealer in order to offset its exposure on the customer swap. At years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the notional amount of such arrangements was $25,133 and $25,755, respectively, and investment securities with a fair value of $3,398 and $2,340 were pledged as collateral to the third party dealers. As the interest rate swaps with the clients and third parties are not designated as hedges under ASC 815, changes in market values are reported in earnings. Summary information about the derivative instruments is as follows: 2012 2011 Notional amount $ 25,133 $ 25,755 Weighted average pay rate on interest-rate swaps 5.03 % 5.06 % Weighted average receive rate on interest rate swaps 2.00 % 2.10 % Weighted average maturity (years) 12 13 Fair value of interest rate swap derivatives (asset) $ 1,131 $ 1,061 Fair value of interest rate swap derivatives (liability) $ 2,014 $ 1,972 135 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has caused this report to be duly signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Davenport, State of Florida, on the 4th day of March, 2013. CENTERSTATE BANKS, INC. /s/ Ernest S. Pinner Ernest S. Pinner Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer /s/ James J. Antal James J. Antal Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal financial officer and principal accounting officer) Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on March 4, 2013. Signature Title /s/ Ernest S. Pinner Ernest S. Pinner Chairman of the Board President and Chief Executive Officer /s/ James H. Bingham James H. Bingham Director /s/ G. Robert Blanchard, Jr. G. Robert Blanchard, Jr. Director /s/ C. Dennis Carlton C. Dennis Carlton Director /s/ John C. Corbett John C. Corbett Director /s/ Griffin A. Greene Griffin A. Greene Director /s/ Charles W. McPherson Charles W. McPherson Director /s/ G. Tierso Nunez II G. Tierso Nunez II Director /s/ Thomas E. Oakley Thomas E. Oakley Director /s/ William Knox Pou, Jr. William Knox Pou, Jr. Director /s/ Joshua A. Snively Joshua A. Snively Director 136 Table of Contents Index to Financial Statements CenterState Banks, Inc. Form 10-K For Fiscal Year Ending December 31, 2012 EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit No. Exhibit 21.1 Subsidiaries of the Registrant 23.1 Consent of Crowe Horwath LLP 31.1 Certification of President and Chief Executive Officer under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1 Certification of President and Chief Executive Officer under Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer under Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Calculation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Definition Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Label Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Presentation Linkbase Document 137 
