 UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K (Mark One) x ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 OR TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period from _______ to _______. Commission File Number: 000-31877 Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 101 nORTH SPRING STREET Greensboro, North Carolina 27401 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (336) 288-1898 (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: NONE Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: COMMON STOCK, $1.00 PAR VALUE Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes x No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes x No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. x Yes No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). x Yes No Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer, and smaller reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller reporting company x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes x No State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked price of such common equity, as of the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter. $16,809,179 Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common stock as of the latest practicable date. 3,388,773 shares of common stock outstanding as of March 22, 2013. Documents Incorporated by Reference. Portions of the Registrant s definitive Proxy Statement dated March 25, 2013 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this report. FORM 10-K CROSS-REFERENCE INDEX Form 10-K Proxy Statement PART I °Item 1 Business 3 °Item 1A - Risk Factors 18 °Item 1B - Unresolved Staff Comments 18 °Item 2 Properties 19 °Item 3 - Legal Proceedings 20 °Item 4 Mine Safety Disclosures 20 PART II °Item 5 - Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 21 X °Item 6 - Selected Financial Data 21 °Item 7 - Management s Discussion Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 22 °Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 42 °Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 43 °Item 9 - Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 91 °Item 9A - Controls and Procedures 92 °Item 9B - Other Information 92 PART III °Item 10 - Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 92 X °Item 11 - Executive Compensation 92 X °Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 92 X °Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 93 X °Item 14 - Principal Accountant Fees and Services 93 X PART IV °Item 15 - Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 93 2 PART I °Item 1. Business. General Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. was incorporated under the laws of the State of North Carolina on August 16, 2000, at the direction of the Board of Directors of Carolina Bank, for the purpose of serving as the bank holding company of Carolina Bank. The bank exchanged all of its outstanding shares of capital stock for shares of our common stock on a one-for-one basis, thereby making us its sole shareholder and bank holding company. Our corporate office is located at 101 North Spring Street, Greensboro, North Carolina. Carolina Bank is a North Carolina chartered bank, which incorporated in August 1996 and began banking operations in November 1996. The bank s main banking office is located at 101 North Spring Street, Greensboro, North Carolina. At December 31, 2012, we had 208 full-time equivalent employees. Business of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. and Carolina Bank Our only function is the ownership of all of the issued and outstanding stock of the bank and ownership of all of the issued and outstanding common securities of Carolina Capital Trust, a Delaware business trust formed in December 2004 for the purpose of selling $10,000,000 of trust preferred securities. We do not engage in any separate lines of business other than those of the bank. The bank engages in a general banking business in Guilford, Alamance, Randolph and Forsyth Counties, North Carolina. Its operations are primarily commercially oriented and directed to individuals and small to medium-sized businesses located in its market area and its deposits and loans are derived primarily from customers in its geographic market. The bank provides most traditional commercial and consumer banking services, including personal and commercial checking and savings accounts, money market accounts, certificates of deposit, individual retirement accounts and related business and individual banking services. The bank s lending activities are concentrated in commercial lending to small-to-medium sized businesses located primarily in its market area, construction and development loans and various consumer-type loans to individuals, including installment loans, credit card products, mortgage loans and equity lines of credit. The bank started a mortgage loan division in 2007 to originate residential loans through third-party brokers and banks and to sell these loans at a profit to institutional investors. A retail loan production office was added to the mortgage loan division in 2010 and was expanded in 2011. The mortgage division originated approximately $1.2 billion in loans held for sale during 2012 and produced 56.7% of our net income. Primary Market Area The bank s primary service area consists of the Cities of Greensboro, High Point, Burlington, Winston-Salem and Asheboro, North Carolina and the areas immediately surrounding Greensboro, High Point, Burlington, Winston-Salem and Asheboro, all of which are located in Guilford, Alamance, Forsyth and Randolph Counties, North Carolina. Residential mortgage loan production offices are also located in Burlington, Hillsborough and Raleigh, NC 3 Competition Commercial banking in the bank s primary service area and in North Carolina as a whole is extremely competitive due to the early adoption of state laws permitting state-wide and interstate branching. The bank competes directly for deposits in its primary service area with other commercial banks, savings banks, credit unions, agencies issuing United States government securities and all other organizations and institutions engaged in money market transactions. In its lending activities, the bank competes with all other financial institutions as well as consumer finance companies, mortgage companies and other lenders engaged in the business of extending credit. In Guilford County, 21 commercial banks operate 147 full service offices, including all of the largest banks in North Carolina. In Alamance County, 16 commercial banks operate 47 full service branch offices. In Randolph County, 16 commercial banks operate 41 full service branch offices. In Forsyth County, 19 commercial banks operate 100 full service offices, including all of the largest banks in North Carolina. Interest rates, both on loans and deposits, and prices of services are significant competitive factors among financial institutions generally. Office location, office hours, customer service, community reputation and continuity of personnel are also important competitive factors. Many of the bank s competitors have greater resources, broader geographic markets and higher lending limits, and can offer more products and better afford and make more effective use of media advertising, support services and electronic technology than the bank. The bank depends on its reputation as a community bank in its local market, direct customer contact, its ability to make credit and other business decisions locally, and personalized service to counter these competitive disadvantages. Employees Carolina Bank employed 208 full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2012. We do not have any officers or employees who are not also officers or employees of the Bank. None of our employees are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. We believe our relations with our employees to be good. Regulation Regulation of Carolina Bank General . The Bank is a North Carolina chartered commercial bank and its deposit accounts are insured by the Deposit Insurance Fund ( DIF ) administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ). The Bank is subject to supervision, examination and regulation by the North Carolina Office of the Commissioner of Banks ( Commissioner ) and the FDIC and to North Carolina and federal statutory and regulatory provisions governing such matters as capital standards, mergers, subsidiary investments and establishment of branch offices. The FDIC also has the authority to conduct special examinations. The Bank is required to file reports with the Commissioner and the FDIC concerning its activities and financial condition and will be required to obtain regulatory approval prior to entering into certain transactions, including mergers with, or acquisitions of, other depository institutions. As a federally insured depository institution, the Bank is subject to various regulations promulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ( Federal Reserve Board or FRB ), including Regulation B (Equal Credit Opportunity), Regulation D (Reserve Requirements), Regulation E (Electronic Fund Transfers), Regulation Z (Truth in Lending), Regulation CC (Availability of Funds and Collection of Checks), Regulation DD (Truth in Savings), the Fair Housing Act, the Dodd-Frank Act and the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, among others. The system of regulation and supervision applicable to the Bank establishes a comprehensive framework for the operations of the Bank, and is intended primarily for the protection of the FDIC and the depositors of the Bank, rather than shareholders. Changes in the regulatory framework could have a material effect on the Bank that in turn, could have a material effect on the Company. Certain of the legal and regulatory requirements are applicable to the Bank and Company. This discussion does not purport to be a complete explanation of all such laws and regulations and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the statutes and regulations involved. 4 North Carolina Banking Law Modernization Act . On October 1, 2012, as a result of the recommendations of the Joint Legislative Study Commission on the Modernization of North Carolina Banking Laws, legislation went into effect that comprehensively modernizes North Carolina s banking laws for the first time since the Great Depression. As a result of the legislation, Articles 1 through 10, 12, and 13 of Chapter 53 of the North Carolina General Statutes were repealed, and new Chapter 53C, entitled Regulation of Banks, became law. Major changes enacted by the law include: a comprehensive list of definitions enhancing the clarity and meaning of the various sections of North Carolina s banking law, a broader reliance on the North Carolina Business Corporations Act, and incorporation of modern concepts of capital adequacy and regulatory supervision. On March 4, 2013, a bill was filed for consideration by the North Carolina General Assembly to make certain technical corrections and clarifications to Chapter 53C. Dodd Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act . In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the Dodd-Frank Act ) was signed into law. This law has significantly changed the current bank regulatory structure and is affecting the lending, deposit, investment, trading, and operating activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The Dodd-Frank Act requires various federal agencies to adopt a broad range of new rules and regulations, and to prepare numerous studies and reports for Congress. The federal agencies have significant discretion in drafting rules and regulations, and consequently, many of the details and much of the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act may not be known for many years. The Dodd-Frank Act included, among other things: the creation of a Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify emerging systemic risks posed by financial firms, activities and practices, and to improve cooperation between federal agencies; the creation of a Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection authorized to promulgate and enforce consumer protection regulations relating to financial products, which would affect both banks and non-bank financial companies; the establishment of strengthened capital and prudential standards for banks and bank holding companies; enhanced regulation of financial markets, including derivatives and securitization markets; the elimination of certain trading activities by banks; a permanent increase of FDIC deposit insurance to $250,000 per deposit category and an increase in the minimum deposit insurance fund reserve requirement from 1.15% to 1.35%, with assessments to be based on assets as opposed to deposits; amendments to the Truth in Lending Act aimed at improving consumer protections with respect to mortgage originations, including originator compensation, minimum repayment standards, and prepayment considerations; and new disclosure and other requirements relating to executive compensation and corporate governance. 5 The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits insured depository institutions and their holding companies from engaging in proprietary trading except in limited circumstances and prohibits them from owning equity interests in excess of three percent (3%) of Tier 1 capital in private equity and hedge funds (known as the Volcker Rule ). The Federal Reserve released a final rule in early 2011 which requires a banking entity, a term that is defined to include bank holding companies like the Company, to bring its proprietary trading activities and investments into compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act restrictions no later than two years after the earlier of: (1) July 21, 2012, or (2) 12 months after the date on which interagency final rules are adopted. Pursuant to the compliance date final rule, banking entities are permitted to request an extension of this timeframe from the Federal Reserve. In late 2011, the federal banking agencies released for comment proposed regulations implementing the Volcker Rule. The public comment period closed in early 2012. The proposed rules are highly complex and many aspects of their application remain uncertain. Due to the complexity of the new rules, the challenges of agency coordination, and the volume of public comments received, implementation of the Volcker Rule has been delayed. We do not currently anticipate that the Volcker Rule will have a material effect on our operations. However, until a final rule is adopted, the precise impact of the Volcker Rule on the Company cannot be determined. A number of other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act remain to be implemented through the rulemaking process at various regulatory agencies. We are unable to predict the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act or the forthcoming rules and regulations will impact our business. However, we believe that certain aspects of the legislation, including, without limitation, the additional cost of higher deposit insurance coverage and the costs of compliance with disclosure and reporting requirements and examinations could have a significant impact on our business, financial condition, and results of operations. Additionally, we cannot predict whether there will be additional proposed laws or reforms that would affect the U.S. financial system or financial institutions, whether or when such changes may be adopted, how such changes may be interpreted and enforced, or how such changes may affect us. Deposit Insurance . The Bank s deposits are insured up to limits set by the Deposit Insurance Fund (the DIF ) of the FDIC. The DIF was formed on March 31, 2006, upon the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the Reform Act ). The Reform Act established a range of 1.15% to 1.50% within which the FDIC may set the Designated Reserve Ratio (the reserve ratio ). The Dodd-Frank Act gave the FDIC greater discretion to manage the DIF, raised the minimum DIF reserve ratio to 1.35%, and removed the upper limit of 1.50%. In 2010, the FDIC adopted a restoration plan to ensure that the DIF reserve ratio reaches 1.35% by September 30, 2020, as required by the Dodd-Frank Act. The FDIC also proposed a comprehensive, long-range plan for management of the DIF. As part of this comprehensive plan, the FDIC has adopted a final rule to set the reserve ratio at 2.0%. In 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act permanently increased FDIC insurance coverage to $250,000 per depositor. The FDIC imposes a risk-based deposit insurance premium assessment on member institutions in order to maintain the DIF. This assessment system was amended by the Reform Act and further amended by the Dodd-Frank Act. Under this system, as amended, the assessment rates for an insured depository institution vary according to the level of risk incurred in its activities. To arrive at an assessment rate for a banking institution, the FDIC places it in one of four risk categories determined by reference to its capital levels and supervisory ratings. In addition, in the case of those institutions in the lowest risk category, the FDIC further determines its assessment rate based on certain specified financial ratios or, if applicable, its long-term debt ratings. The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time, at the discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the methodology for calculating deposit insurance assessments from the amount of an insured institution s domestic deposits to its total assets minus tangible capital. In 2011, the FDIC issued a new regulation implementing these revisions to the assessment system. In addition to the assessment for deposit insurance, insured institutions are required to make payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation ( FICO ), established by the Competitive Equality Banking Act of 1987 to recapitalize the former Federal Savings Loan Insurance Corporation ( FSLIC ) deposit insurance fund. The FDIC established the FICO assessment rate effective for the first quarter of 2012 at 0.64 cents annually per $100 of assessable deposits. The Bank s quarterly FICO payments during the year ended December 31, 2012 was 0.64 cents annually per $100 of assessable assets. 6 In 2008, the FDIC announced the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (the TLGP ) to strengthen confidence and encourage liquidity in the banking system. The TLGP consists of two components: a temporary guarantee of newly-issued senior unsecured debt named the Debt Guarantee Program, and a temporary unlimited guarantee of funds in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts at FDIC insured institutions named the Transaction Account Guarantee Program ( TAG ). All newly-issued senior unsecured debt will be charged an annual assessment of up to 100 basis points (depending on term) multiplied by the amount of debt issued and calculated through the date of that debt or June 30, 2012, whichever is earlier. The Bank elected to opt out of the Debt Guarantee Program. The Bank elected to participate in the TAG Program. In 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule extending the TAG portion of the TLGP for six months through June 30, 2010, and it was extended again through December 31, 2010. The Bank elected to continue to participate in the TAG Program through December 31, 2010. On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank Act extended unlimited FDIC insurance coverage to noninterest-bearing transaction deposit accounts from December 31, 2010 through December 31, 2012. On January 1, 2013, funds in a non-interest bearing account (including Lawyer Trust Accounts) were no longer eligible for the unlimited deposit insurance coverage. These funds will now be insured to the legal maximum of $250,000 for each ownership category. During 2009, the FDIC took several measures aimed at replenishing the DIF. On May 22, 2009, the FDIC imposed a 5 basis point special assessment on each insured institution s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. On November 17, 2009, the FDIC voted to require insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, as well as all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. For purposes of determining the prepayment, the FDIC used an institution s assessment rate in effect on September 30, 2009. On December 30, 2009, the Bank paid a $3.4 million prepaid assessment and it was accounted for as a prepaid expense with a zero risk-weighting for risk-based regulatory capital purposes. On a quarterly basis after December 31, 2009, the Bank expenses its regular quarterly deposit insurance assessment and records an offsetting credit to the prepaid assessment asset, until the asset is exhausted. If the prepaid assessment is not exhausted by June 30, 2013, any remaining amount will be returned to the Bank. The Bank s remaining prepaid assessment asset was $0.8 million at December 31, 2012. The FDIC has authority to increase insurance assessments. A significant increase in insurance premiums would likely have an adverse effect on the operating expenses and results of operations of the Bank. Management cannot predict what insurance assessment rates will be in the future. Insurance of deposits may be terminated by the FDIC upon a finding that an insured institution has engaged in unsafe or unsound practices, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to continue operations or has violated any applicable law, regulation, rule, order or condition imposed by the FDIC. Management of the Bank is not aware of any practice, condition or violation that might lead to termination of its FDIC deposit insurance. Capital Requirements . The federal banking regulators have adopted certain risk-based capital guidelines to assist in the assessment of the capital adequacy of a banking organization s operations for both transactions reported on the balance sheet as assets and transactions, such as letters of credit, and recourse arrangements, which are recorded as off balance sheet items. Under these guidelines, nominal dollar amounts of assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance sheet items are multiplied by one of several risk adjustment percentages which range from 0% for assets with low credit risk, such as certain U.S. Treasury securities, to 100% for assets with relatively high credit risk, such as business loans. 7 A banking organization s risk-based capital ratios are obtained by dividing its qualifying capital by its total risk adjusted assets. The regulators measure risk-adjusted assets, which include off balance sheet items, against both total qualifying capital (the sum of Tier 1 capital and limited amounts of Tier 2 capital) and Tier 1 capital. Tier 1, or core capital, includes common equity, qualifying noncumulative perpetual preferred stock and minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and other intangibles, subject to certain exceptions. Tier 2, or supplementary capital, includes among other things, limited-life preferred stock, hybrid capital instruments, mandatory convertible securities, qualifying subordinated debt, and the allowance for loan and lease losses, subject to certain limitations and less required deductions. The inclusion of elements of Tier 2 capital is subject to certain other requirements and limitations of the federal banking agencies. Banks and bank holding companies subject to the risk-based capital guidelines are required to maintain a ratio of Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 4% and a ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 8%. The appropriate regulatory authority may set higher capital requirements when particular circumstances warrant. As of December 31, 2012, the Registrant was classified as well capitalized with Tier 1 and Total Risk-Based Capital of 11.11% and 14.02%, respectively. Also, as of December 31, 2012, the Bank was classified as well capitalized with Tier 1 and Total Risk-Based Capital of 11.27% and 14.18%, respectively. The federal banking agencies have adopted regulations specifying that they will include, in their evaluations of a bank s capital adequacy, an assessment of the bank s interest rate risk exposure. The standards for measuring the adequacy and effectiveness of a banking organization s interest rate risk management include a measurement of board of director and senior management oversight, and a determination of whether a banking organization s procedures for comprehensive risk management are appropriate for the circumstances of the specific banking organization. Carolina Bank has an internal goal to use its best efforts to maintain Tier 1 Capital to average assets above 8% as long as the ratio of classified assets to capital is above 50%, and Carolina Bank exceeded this goal during 2012 with a Tier 1 Capital to average assets ratio of 9.23% at December 31, 2012. Failure to meet applicable capital guidelines could subject a banking organization to a variety of enforcement actions, including limitations on its ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the applicable regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital and, in the case of depository institutions, the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC, as well as the measures described under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 below, as applicable to undercapitalized institutions. In addition, future changes in regulations or practices could further reduce the amount of capital recognized for purposes of capital adequacy. Such a change could affect the ability of the Banks to grow and could restrict the amount of profits, if any, available for the payment of dividends to the shareholders. In June 2012, the federal bank regulatory agencies jointly issued three proposed rules that would revise the general risk-based capital rules to incorporate certain revisions by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to the Basel capital framework (Basel III). While the regulatory agencies had initially proposed an effective date of January 1, 2013 for the new rules, the agencies have since confirmed that the implementation will be delayed as a result of the many industry participants, including community banks, that expressed concern over the impact of the proposed rules. When and if the proposed rules become effective, they would, among other things: revise the definition of regulatory capital components and related calculations, add a new common equity Tier 1 capital ratio, and increase the minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio requirement from 4% to 6% percent. If the proposed rules are implemented as written, the amount of capital that the Bank would be required to hold would likely increase. 8 Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 . In December 1991, Congress enacted the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (the FDIC Improvement Act ), which substantially revised the bank regulatory and funding provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act and made significant revisions to several other federal banking statutes. The FDIC Improvement Act provides for, among other things: - publicly available annual financial condition and management reports for certain financial institutions, including audits by independent accountants, - the establishment of uniform accounting standards by federal banking agencies, - the establishment of a prompt corrective action system of regulatory supervision and intervention, based on capitalization levels, with greater scrutiny and restrictions placed on depository institutions with lower levels of capital, - additional grounds for the appointment of a conservator or receiver, and - restrictions or prohibitions on accepting brokered deposits, except for institutions which significantly exceed minimum capital requirements. The FDIC Improvement Act also provides for increased funding of the FDIC insurance funds and the implementation of risk-based premiums. A central feature of the FDIC Improvement Act is the requirement that the federal banking agencies take prompt corrective action with respect to depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. Pursuant to the FDIC Improvement Act, the federal bank regulatory authorities have adopted regulations setting forth a five-tiered system for measuring the capital adequacy of the depository institutions that they supervise. Under these regulations, a depository institution is classified in one of the following capital categories: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. An institution may be deemed by the regulators to be in a capitalization category that is lower than is indicated by its actual capital position if, among other things, it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with respect to asset quality, management, earnings or liquidity. The FDIC Improvement Act provides the federal banking agencies with significantly expanded powers to take enforcement action against institutions which fail to comply with capital or other standards. Such action may include the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC or the appointment of a receiver or conservator for the institution. The FDIC Improvement Act also limits the circumstances under which the FDIC is permitted to provide financial assistance to an insured institution before appointment of a conservator or receiver. International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001 . On October 26, 2001, the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 was enacted. This act contains the International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001, which sets forth anti-money laundering measures affecting insured depository institutions, broker-dealers and other financial institutions. The Act requires U.S. financial institutions to adopt new policies and procedures to combat money laundering and grants the Secretary of the Treasury broad authority to establish regulations and to impose requirements and restrictions on the operations of financial institutions. 9 Office of Foreign Assets Control Regulation . The United States has imposed economic sanctions that affect transactions with designated foreign countries, nationals and others. These are typically known as the OFAC rules based on their administration by the U.S. Treasury s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC). The OFAC-administered sanctions targeting countries take many different forms. Generally, however, they contain one or more of the following elements: (i) restrictions on trade with or investment in a sanctioned country, including prohibitions against direct or indirect imports from and exports to a sanctioned country and prohibitions on U.S. persons engaging in financial transactions relating to making investments in, or providing investment-related advice or assistance to, a sanctioned country; and (ii) a blocking of assets in which the government or specially designated nationals of the sanctioned country have an interest, by prohibiting transfers of property subject to U.S. jurisdiction (including property in the possession or control of U.S. persons). Blocked assets (e.g., property and bank deposits) cannot be paid out, withdrawn, set off or transferred in any manner without a license from OFAC. Failure of a financial institution to comply with these sanctions could result in legal consequences for the institution. Community Reinvestment Act. We are subject to the provisions of the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, as amended (CRA). Under the terms of the CRA, the appropriate federal bank regulatory agency is required, in connection with the examination of a bank, to assess such bank s record in meeting the credit needs of the community served by that bank, including low-and moderate-income neighborhoods. The regulatory agency s assessment of our record is made available to the public. Such an assessment is required of any bank which has made any application for a domestic deposit-taking branch, relocation of a main office, branch or ATM, merger or consolidation with or acquisition of assets or assumption of liabilities of a federally insured depository institution. Under CRA regulations, banks with assets of less than $250,000,000 that are independent or affiliated with a holding company with total banking assets of less than $1 billion, are subject to streamlined small bank performance standards and much less stringent data collection and reporting requirements than larger banks. The agencies emphasize that small banks are not exempt from CRA requirements. The streamlined performance method for small banks focuses on the bank s loan-to-deposit ratio, adjusted for seasonal variations and as appropriate, other lending-related activities, such as loan originations for sale to secondary markets or community development lending or qualified investments; the percentage of loans and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities located in our assessment areas; our record of lending to and, as appropriate, other lending-related activities for borrowers of different income levels and businesses and farms of different sizes; the geographic distribution of our loans given our assessment areas, capacity to lend, local economic conditions, and lending opportunities; and our record of taking action, if warranted, in response to written complaints about our performance in meeting the credit needs of our assessment areas. Regulatory agencies will assign a composite rating of outstanding, satisfactory, needs to improve, or substantial noncompliance to the institution using the foregoing ground rules. A bank s performance need not fit each aspect of a particular rating profile in order for the bank to receive that rating; exceptionally strong performance with respect to some aspects may compensate for weak performance in others, and the bank s overall performance must be consistent with safe and sound banking practices and generally with the appropriate rating profile. To earn an outstanding rating, the bank first must exceed some or all of the standards mentioned above. The agencies may assign a needs to improve or substantial noncompliance rating depending on the degree to which the bank has failed to meet the standards mentioned above. The regulation further states that the agencies will take into consideration these CRA ratings when considering any application and that a bank s record of performance may be the basis for denying or conditioning the approval of an application. 10 Federal Home Loan Bank System . The FHLB System consists of 12 district FHLBs subject to supervision and regulation by the Federal Housing Finance Agency ( FHFA ). The FHLBs provide a central credit facility primarily for member institutions. As a member of the FHLB of Atlanta, the Bank is required to acquire and hold shares of capital stock in the FHLB of Atlanta. The Bank was in compliance with this requirement with investment in FHLB of Atlanta stock of $1.7 million at December 31, 2012. The FHLB of Atlanta serves as a reserve or central bank for its member institutions within its assigned district. It is funded primarily from proceeds derived from the sale of consolidated obligations of the FHLB System. It offers advances to members in accordance with policies and procedures established by the FHFA and the Board of Directors of the FHLB of Atlanta. Long-term advances may only be made for the purpose of providing funds for residential housing finance, small businesses, small farms and small agribusinesses. Reserves . Pursuant to regulations of the FRB, the Bank must maintain average daily reserves equal to 3% on transaction accounts of $12.4 million up to $79.5 million, plus 10% on the remainder. This percentage is subject to adjustment by the FRB. Because required reserves must be maintained in the form of vault cash or in a noninterest bearing account at a Federal Reserve Bank, the effect of the reserve requirement is to reduce the amount of the institution s interest-earning assets. As of December 31, 2012, the Bank met its reserve requirements. The Bank is also subject to the reserve requirements of North Carolina commercial banks. North Carolina law requires state nonmember banks to maintain, at all times, a reserve fund in an amount set by the Commissioner. Liquidity Requirements . FDIC policy requires that banks maintain an average daily balance of liquid assets (cash, certain time deposits, mortgage-backed securities, loans available for sale and specified United States government, state, or federal agency obligations) in an amount which it deems adequate to protect the safety and soundness of the bank. The FDIC currently has no specific level which it requires. The Bank maintains its liquidity position under policy guidelines based on liquid assets in relationship to deposits and short-term borrowings. Based on its policy calculation guidelines, the Bank s calculated liquidity ratio was 30.8% of total deposits and short-term borrowings at December 31, 2012, which management believes is adequate. Dividend Restrictions . Under FDIC regulations, the Bank is prohibited from making any capital distributions if after making the distribution, the Bank would have: (i) a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 8.0%; (ii) a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of less than 4.0%; or (iii) a leverage ratio of less than 4.0%. The FDIC and the Commissioner have the power to further restrict the payment of dividends by the Bank. The Company agreed during 2011 to obtain the written approval of the Federal Reserve before declaring or paying any dividend, common or preferred, or making any payments on trust preferred securities. Although dividends were deferred on its preferred stock during 2012, all deferred dividends were paid in 2013 when this restriction was removed. Limits on Loans to One Borrower . The Bank generally is subject to both FDIC regulations and North Carolina law regarding loans to any one borrower, including related entities. Under applicable law, with certain limited exceptions, loans and extensions of credit by a state chartered nonmember bank to a person outstanding at one time and not fully secured by collateral having a market value at least equal to the amount of the loan or extension of credit shall not exceed 15% of the unimpaired capital of the Bank. Loans and extensions of credit fully secured by readily marketable collateral having a market value at least equal to the amount of the loan or extension of credit shall not exceed 10% of the unimpaired capital fund of the Bank. Under these limits, the Bank s loans to one borrower were limited to $11.9 million at December 31, 2012. At that date, the Bank had no lending relationships in excess of the loans-to-one-borrower limit. 11 Transactions with Related Parties . Transactions between a state nonmember bank and any affiliate are governed by Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act. An affiliate of a state nonmember bank is any company or entity which controls, is controlled by or is under common control with the state nonmember bank. In a holding company context, the parent holding company of a state nonmember bank (such as the Company) and any companies which are controlled by such parent holding company are affiliates of the savings institution or state nonmember bank. Generally, Sections 23A and 23B (i) limit the extent to which an institution or its subsidiaries may engage in covered transactions with any one affiliate to an amount equal to 10% of such institution s capital stock and surplus, and contain an aggregate limit on all such transactions with all affiliates to an amount equal to 20% of such capital stock and surplus and (ii) require that all such transactions be on terms substantially the same, or at least as favorable, to the institution or subsidiary as those provided to a non-affiliate. The term covered transaction includes the making of loans, purchase of assets, issuance of a guarantee and similar other types of transactions. Loans to Directors, Executive Officers and Principal Stockholders . State nonmember banks also are subject to the restrictions contained in Section 22(h) of the Federal Reserve Act and the applicable regulations thereunder on loans to executive officers, directors and principal stockholders. Under Section 22(h), loans to a director, executive officer and to a greater than 10% stockholder of a state nonmember bank and certain affiliated interests of such persons, may not exceed, together with all other outstanding loans to such person and affiliated interests, the institution s loans-to-one-borrower limit and all loans to such persons may not exceed the institution s unimpaired capital and unimpaired surplus. Section 22(h) also prohibits loans above amounts prescribed by the appropriate federal banking agency to directors, executive officers and greater than 10% stockholders of a depository institution, and their respective affiliates, unless such loan is approved in advance by a majority of the board of directors of the institution with any interested director not participating in the voting. Regulation O prescribes the loan amount (which includes all other outstanding loans to such person) as to which such prior board of director approval is required as being the greater of $25,000 or 5% of capital and surplus (or any loans aggregating $500,000 or more). Further, Section 22(h) requires that loans to directors, executive officers and principal stockholders generally be made on terms substantially the same as offered in comparable transactions to other persons. Section 22(h) also generally prohibits a depository institution from paying the overdrafts of any of its executive officers or directors. State nonmember banks also are subject to the requirements and restrictions of Section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act on loans to executive officers. Section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act requires approval by the board of directors of a depository institution for such extensions of credit and imposes reporting requirements for and additional restrictions on the type, amount and terms of credits to such officers. In addition, Section 106 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended ( BHCA ) prohibits extensions of credit to executive officers, directors, and greater than 10% stockholders of a depository institution by any other institution which has a correspondent banking relationship with the institution, unless such extension of credit is on substantially the same terms as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other persons and does not involve more than the normal risk of repayment or present other unfavorable features. Restrictions on Certain Activities . State chartered nonmember banks with deposits insured by the FDIC are generally prohibited from engaging in equity investments that are not permissible for a national bank. The foregoing limitation, however, does not prohibit FDIC-insured state banks from acquiring or retaining an equity investment in a subsidiary in which the bank is a majority owner. State chartered banks are also prohibited from engaging as a principal in any type of activity that is not permissible for a national bank and, subject to certain exceptions, subsidiaries of state chartered FDIC-insured banks may not engage as a principal in any type of activity that is not permissible for a subsidiary of a national bank, unless in either case, the FDIC determines that the activity would pose no significant risk to the DIF and the bank is, and continues to be, in compliance with applicable capital standards. 12 We cannot predict what legislation might be enacted or what regulations might be adopted, or if enacted or adopted, the effect thereof on the bank s operations. Regulation of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. Federal Regulation . We are subject to examination, regulation and periodic reporting under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as administered by the Federal Reserve Board. The Federal Reserve Board has adopted capital adequacy guidelines for bank holding companies on a consolidated basis. We are required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to acquire all, or substantially all, of the assets of any bank or bank holding company. Prior Federal Reserve Board approval is required for the company to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting securities of any bank or bank holding company if, after giving effect to such acquisition, we would, directly or indirectly, own or control more than five percent of any class of voting shares of such bank or bank holding company. The merger or consolidation of the bank with another bank, or the acquisition by the company of assets of another bank, or the assumption of liability by the company to pay any deposits in another bank, will require the prior written approval of the primary federal bank regulatory agency of the acquiring or surviving bank under the federal bank Merger Act. The decision is based upon a consideration of statutory factors similar to those outlined above with respect to the Bank Holding Company Act. In addition, in certain such cases an application to, and the prior approval of, the Federal Reserve Board under the Bank Holding Company Act and/or the North Carolina Banking Commission may be required. We are required to give the Federal Reserve Board prior written notice of any purchase or redemption of our outstanding equity securities if the gross consideration for the purchase or redemption, when combined with the net consideration paid for all such purchases or redemptions during the preceding 12 months, is equal to 10% or more of the company s consolidated net worth. The Federal Reserve Board may disapprove such a purchase or redemption if it determines that the proposal would constitute an unsafe and unsound practice, or would violate any law, regulation, Federal Reserve Board order or directive, or any condition imposed by, or written agreement with, the Federal Reserve Board. Such notice and approval is not required for a bank holding company that would be treated as well capitalized and well managed under applicable regulations of the Federal Reserve Board, that has received a composite 1 or 2 rating at its most recent bank holding company inspection by the Federal Reserve Board, and that is not the subject of any unresolved supervisory issues. The status of the company as a registered bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act does not exempt it from certain federal and state laws and regulations applicable to corporations generally, including, without limitation, certain provisions of the federal securities laws. In addition, a bank holding company is prohibited generally from engaging in, or acquiring five percent or more of any class of voting securities of any company engaged in, non-banking activities. One of the principal exceptions to this prohibition is for activities found by the Federal Reserve Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Some of the principal activities that the Federal Reserve Board has determined by regulation to be so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto are: - making or servicing loans; - performing certain data processing services; 13 - providing discount brokerage services; - acting as fiduciary, investment or financial advisor; - leasing personal or real property; - making investments in corporations or projects designed primarily to promote community welfare; and - acquiring a savings and loan association. In evaluating a written notice of such an acquisition, the Federal Reserve Board will consider various factors, including among others the financial and managerial resources of the notifying bank holding company and the relative public benefits and adverse effects which may be expected to result from the performance of the activity by an affiliate of such company. The Federal Reserve Board may apply different standards to activities proposed to be commenced de novo and activities commenced by acquisition, in whole or in part, of a going concern. The required notice period may be extended by the Federal Reserve Board under certain circumstances, including a notice for acquisition of a company engaged in activities not previously approved by regulation of the Federal Reserve Board. If such a proposed acquisition is not disapproved or subjected to conditions by the Federal Reserve Board within the applicable notice period, it is deemed approved by the Federal Reserve Board. However, with the passage of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999, which became effective on March 11, 2000, the types of activities in which a bank holding company may engage were significantly expanded. Subject to various limitations, the Modernization Act generally permits a bank holding company to elect to become a financial holding company. A financial holding company may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are financial in nature. Among the activities that are deemed financial in nature are, in addition to traditional lending activities, securities underwriting, dealing in or making a market in securities, sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies, insurance underwriting and agency activities, certain merchant banking activities and activities that the Federal Reserve Board considers to be closely related to banking. A bank holding company may become a financial holding company under the Modernization Act if each of its subsidiary banks is well capitalized under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act prompt corrective action provisions, is well managed and has at least a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act. In addition, the bank holding company must file a declaration with the Federal Reserve Board that the bank holding company wishes to become a financial holding company. A bank holding company that falls out of compliance with these requirements may be required to cease engaging in some of its activities. We have not yet elected to become a financial holding company. Under the Modernization Act, the Federal Reserve Board serves as the primary umbrella regulator of financial holding companies, with supervisory authority over each parent company and limited authority over its subsidiaries. Expanded financial activities of financial holding companies generally will be regulated according to the type of such financial activity: banking activities by banking regulators, securities activities by securities regulators and insurance activities by insurance regulators. The Modernization Act also imposes additional restrictions and heightened disclosure requirements regarding private information collected by financial institutions. Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. On July 30, 2002, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was signed into law and became some of the most sweeping federal laws addressing accounting, corporate governance and disclosure issues. The impact of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act is wide-ranging as it applies to all public companies and imposes significant new requirements for public company governance and disclosure requirements. 14 In general, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act mandates important corporate governance and financial reporting requirements intended to enhance the accuracy and transparency of public companies reported financial results. It establishes responsibilities for corporate chief executive officers, chief financial officers and audit committees in the financial reporting process and established regulatory body to oversee auditors of public companies. It backs these requirements with SEC enforcement tools, increases criminal penalties for federal mail, wire and securities fraud, and creates new criminal penalties for document and record destruction in connection with federal investigations. It also increases the opportunity for more private litigation by lengthening the statute of limitations for securities fraud claims and providing new federal corporate whistleblower protection. The economic and operational effects of this new legislation on public companies, including us, is significant in terms of the time, resources and costs associated with complying with the new law. Because the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, for the most part, applies equally to larger and smaller public companies, we are presented with additional challenges as a smaller, community-oriented financial institution seeking to compete with larger financial institutions in our market. Recent Regulatory Initiatives . Beginning in late 2008 and continuing through 2009, the federal government took sweeping actions in response to the deepening economic recession. As mentioned above, President Bush signed the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 or EESA into law on October 3, 2008. Pursuant to EESA, the Department of the Treasury created the Troubled Asset Relief Program or TARP for the purpose of stabilizing the U.S. financial markets. On October 14, 2008, the Treasury announced the creation of the TARP Capital Purchase Program. The Capital Purchase Program was designed to invest up to $250 billion (later increased to $350 billion) in certain eligible financial institutions in the form of nonvoting senior preferred stock initially paying quarterly dividends at a five percent annual rate. In connection with its investment in senior preferred stock, the Treasury also received ten-year warrants to purchase common shares of participating institutions. We applied, and were approved, for participation in the Capital Purchase Program in late 2008. On January 9, 2009, the company issued and sold to the Treasury (1) 16,000 shares of the company s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A, and (2) a warrant to purchase 357,675 shares of the company s common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $16.0 million in cash. The preferred stock qualifies as Tier 1 capital. The company s outstanding shares of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A were sold to private investors by the Treasury during the first quarter of 2013. For additional information about the Capital Purchase Program transaction, please see Note 9 to the company s audited consolidated financial statements. Capital Requirements . The Federal Reserve Board uses capital adequacy guidelines in its examination and regulation of bank holding companies. If capital falls below minimum guidelines, a bank holding company may, among other things, be denied approval to acquire or establish additional banks or non-bank businesses. There are two measures of capital adequacy: a risk-based measure and a leverage measure. All capital standards must be satisfied for an institution to be considered in compliance. The risk-based capital standards are designed to make regulatory capital requirements more sensitive to differences in risk profile among banks and bank holding companies, to account for off-balance sheet exposure, and to minimize disincentives for holding liquid assets. Assets and off-balance sheet items are assigned to broad risk categories, each with appropriate weights. The resulting capital ratio represents capital as a percentage of total risk-weighted assets and off-balance sheet items. The minimum requirement for a bank holding company s ratio of capital to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit) is 8.0%. At least half of the qualifying total capital must be composed of Tier 1 capital, which includes common equity, retained earnings and a limited amount of qualifying perpetual preferred stock, less goodwill and certain other intangibles. The remainder may consist of subordinated debt, other preferred stock and a limited amount of loan loss reserves (Tier 2 capital). 15 The Federal Reserve Board also requires bank holding companies to maintain a minimum leverage ratio. This leverage ratio of Tier 1 capital to adjusted average assets is equal to 3.0% for bank holding companies that meet certain specified criteria, including having the highest regulatory rating. All other bank holding companies are required to maintain a minimum leverage ratio of at least 4.0% to 5.0%. The risk-based and leverage standards presently used by the Federal Reserve Board are minimum requirements, and higher capital levels will be required if warranted by the particular circumstances or risk profiles of individual banking organizations. Further, any banking organization experiencing or anticipating significant growth would be expected to maintain capital ratios, including tangible capital positions (i.e., Tier 1 capital less all intangible assets), well above the minimum levels. Source of Strength for Subsidiaries . Bank holding companies are required to serve as a source of financial strength for their depository institution subsidiaries, and, if their depository institution subsidiaries become undercapitalized, bank holding companies may be required to guarantee the subsidiaries compliance with capital restoration plans filed with their bank regulators, subject to certain limits. Dividends . As a bank holding company that does not, as an entity, currently engage in separate business activities of a material nature, our ability to pay cash dividends depends upon the cash dividends we receive from the bank or from funds held at the holding company from prior capital offerings. At present, our only source of income is dividends paid by the bank and interest earned on any investment securities we hold. We must pay all of our operating expenses from funds we receive from the bank. Therefore, shareholders may receive dividends from the company only to the extent that funds are available after payment of our operating expenses and the board decides to declare a dividend. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board generally prohibits bank holding companies from paying dividends except out of operating earnings, and the prospective rate of earnings retention appears consistent with the bank holding company s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. We expect that, for the foreseeable future, any dividends paid by the bank to us will likely be limited to amounts needed to pay any separate expenses of the company, to make required payments on our debt obligations, including the interest payments on our junior subordinated debt, to make dividend payments on or retire preferred stock, or repurchase the stock warrant issued with our preferred stock. The FDIC Improvement Act requires the federal bank regulatory agencies biennially to review risk-based capital standards to ensure that they adequately address interest rate risk, concentration of credit risk and risks from non-traditional activities and, since adoption of the Riegle Community Development and Regulatory Improvement Act of 1994, to do so taking into account the size and activities of depository institutions and the avoidance of undue reporting burdens. In 1995, the agencies adopted regulations requiring as part of the assessment of an institution s capital adequacy the consideration of (a) identified concentrations of credit risks, (b) the exposure of the institution to a decline in the value of its capital due to changes in interest rates and (c) the application of revised conversion factors and netting rules on the institution s potential future exposure from derivative transactions. 16 In addition, the agencies in September 1996 adopted amendments to their respective risk-based capital standards to require banks and bank holding companies having significant exposure to market risk arising from, among other things, trading of debt instruments, (1) to measure that risk using an internal value-at-risk model conforming to the parameters established in the agencies standards and (2) to maintain a commensurate amount of additional capital to reflect such risk. The new rules were adopted effective January 1, 1997, with compliance mandatory from and after January 1, 1998. Subsidiary banks of a bank holding company are subject to certain quantitative and qualitative restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Act on any extension of credit to, or purchase of assets from, or letter of credit on behalf of, the bank holding company or its subsidiaries, and on the investment in or acceptance of stocks or securities of such holding company or its subsidiaries as collateral for loans. In addition, provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and Federal Reserve Board regulations limit the amounts of, and establish required procedures and credit standards with respect to, loans and other extensions of credit to officers, directors and principal shareholders of the bank, the company, and any subsidiary of the company and related interests of such persons. Moreover, subsidiaries of bank holding companies are prohibited from engaging in certain tying arrangements (with the holding company or any of its subsidiaries) in connection with any extension of credit, lease or sale of property or furnishing of services. Any loans by a bank holding company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In the event of a bank holding company s bankruptcy, any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank would be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a priority of payment. This priority would also apply to guarantees of capital plans under the FDIC Improvement Act. Interstate Branching . Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Act (the Riegle-Neal Act ), the Federal Reserve Board may approve bank holding company acquisitions of banks in other states, subject to certain aging and deposit concentration limits. As of June 1, 1997, banks in one state may merge with banks in another state, unless the other state has chosen not to implement this section of the Riegle-Neal Act. These mergers are also subject to similar aging and deposit concentration limits. North Carolina opted-in to the provisions of the Riegle-Neal Act. Since July 1, 1995, an out-of-state bank that did not already maintain a branch in North Carolina was permitted to establish and maintain a de novo branch in North Carolina, or acquire a branch in North Carolina, if the laws of the home state of the out-of-state bank permit North Carolina banks to engage in the same activities in that state under substantially the same terms as permitted by North Carolina. Also, North Carolina banks may merge with out-of-state banks, and an out-of-state bank resulting from such an interstate merger transaction may maintain and operate the branches in North Carolina of a merged North Carolina bank, if the laws of the home state of the out-of-state bank involved in the interstate merger transaction permit interstate merger. Incentive Compensation Policies and Restrictions . In July 2010, the federal banking agencies issued guidance which applies to all banking organizations supervised by the agencies. Pursuant to the guidance, to be consistent with safety and soundness principles, a banking organization s incentive compensation arrangements should: (1) provide employees with incentives that appropriately balance risk and reward; (2) be compatible with effective controls and risk management; and (3) be supported by strong corporate governance including active and effective oversight by the banking organization s board of directors. Monitoring methods and processes used by a banking organization should be commensurate with the size and complexity of the organization and its use of incentive compensation. 17 In addition, in March 2011, the federal banking agencies, along with the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the Securities and Exchange Commission, released a proposed rule intended to ensure that regulated financial institutions design their incentive compensation arrangements to account for risk. Specifically, the proposed rule would require compensation practices of the Registrant and the Bank to be consistent with the following principles: (1) compensation arrangements appropriately balance risk and financial reward; (2) such arrangements are compatible with effective controls and risk management; and (3) such arrangements are supported by strong corporate governance. In addition, financial institutions with $1 billion or more in assets would be required to have policies and procedures to ensure compliance with the rule and would be required to submit annual reports to their primary federal regulator. The comment period has closed and a final rule has not yet been published. Future Legislation We cannot predict what legislation might be enacted or what regulations might be adopted, or if enacted or adopted, the effect thereof on our operations. °Item 1A. Risk Factors. °Item not applicable to smaller reporting companies. °Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. °Item not applicable to smaller reporting companies. 18 °Item 2. Properties. The following table sets forth certain information regarding our properties: APPROX. YEAR SQUARE OFFICE LOCATION OPENED FOOTAGE OWN/LEASE Main Office Corporate Office 2008 43,000 Land lease 101 North Spring Street Greensboro, NC 27401 Lawndale Office 2604 Lawndale Drive 2000 12,000 Own Greensboro, NC Friendly Center Office 3124 Friendly Avenue 1996 5,300 Lease Greensboro, NC Jefferson Village Office 1601 Highwoods Blvd. 2001 3,000 Own Greensboro, NC Asheboro Office 2003 5,800 Own 335 S. Fayetteville Street Asheboro, NC High Point Office 2007 4,500 Own 4010 Brian Jordan Blvd. High Point, NC Burlington Office 2007 5,800 Own 3214 South Church Street Burlington, NC Winston-Salem Office 1590 Westbrook Plaza Drive 2008 1,500 Lease Suite 103 Winston-Salem, NC Burlington Loan 2010 4,350 Lease Production Office 411-B Alamance Road Burlington, NC 27215 Hillsborough Loan 2012 640 Lease Production Office 103 Millstone Drive Hillsborough, NC 27278 Raleigh Loan 2013 2,468 Lease Production Office 5711 Six Forks Road Suite 201 Raleigh, NC 27609 19 °Item 3. Legal Proceedings. As of December 31, 2012, there were no pending material legal proceedings to which we are a party, or of which any of our property is the subject. °Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES. None. 20 PART II °Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Summary Our common stock is listed for quotation on the Nasdaq Global Market under the symbol CLBH. As of March 15, 2013, we had issued and outstanding 3,388,773 shares of common stock which were held by approximately 1,350 shareholders. No cash dividends were declared or paid on shares of our common stock in 2012 or 2011. Market for the Common Stock Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the symbol CLBH. The following table gives the high and low sale prices for the calendar quarters indicated. Sales Prices High Low 2012 First Quarter $ 4.40 $ 2.44 Second Quarter 6.41 4.10 Third Quarter 7.94 4.60 Fourth Quarter 8.49 6.51 2011 First Quarter $ 5.00 $ 3.10 Second Quarter 4.00 2.53 Third Quarter 2.91 2.25 Fourth Quarter 3.10 2.27 See Item 12 of this report for disclosure regarding securities authorized for issuance and equity compensation plans required by Item 201(d) of Regulation S-K. °Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Not applicable to smaller reporting companies. 21 °Item 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION. The following discussion is intended to assist in understanding our financial condition and results of operations. Because we have no material operations and conduct no business on our own other than owning our subsidiaries, Carolina Bank and Carolina Capital Trust, and because Carolina Capital Trust has no operations other than the issuance of its trust preferred securities, the discussion contained in this Management s Discussion and Analysis concerns primarily the business of Carolina Bank. Carolina Bank also owns two limited liability companies for the purpose of holding foreclosed real estate, the assets and operations of which are consolidated into Carolina Bank and included herein. For ease of reading and because the financial statements are presented on a consolidated basis, Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. and Carolina Bank are collectively referred to herein as we , our , or us , unless otherwise noted. Forward-looking Statements This report contains forward-looking statements with respect to our financial condition and results of operations and business. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties and are based on our beliefs and assumptions and on information available at the time these statements and disclosures were prepared. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expected include the following: General economic conditions may deteriorate and negatively impact the ability of our borrowers to repay loans and our depositors to maintain balances. Changes in interest rates could reduce our net interest income. Competitive pressures among financial institutions may increase. Legislative or regulatory changes, including changes in accounting standards, may adversely affect the businesses in which we are engaged. New products developed and new methods of delivering products could result in a reduction in our business and income. Increases in interest rates, increases in warranty losses, or changes in the securitization of mortgages could negatively impact our mortgage banking income. Adverse changes may occur in the securities market. Local, state or federal taxing authorities may take tax positions that are adverse to us. Unpredictable natural and other disasters could have an adverse effect on our operations or on the willingness of our customers to access our financial services. Critical Accounting Policies Our accounting and financial policies are in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States and conform to general practices in the banking industry. The more critical accounting and reporting policies include our accounting for the allowance for loan losses. Our accounting policies relating to the allowance for loan losses involve the use of estimates and require significant judgment. These estimates are based on our opinion of an amount that is adequate to absorb losses in the existing loan portfolio. The allowance for loan losses is established through a provision for loan losses based on available information including the composition of the loan portfolio, historical loan losses, specific impaired loans, availability and quality of collateral, changes in local economic conditions, and loan performance and quality of the portfolio. Different assumptions used in evaluating the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses could result in material changes in our consolidated financial condition or consolidated financial results of operations. The methodology we employ to determine the allowance for loan losses involves a number of assumptions and estimates about uncertain matters. We periodically review our assumptions and methodology. 22 Our mortgage division originates residential mortgage loans which are sold to investors. We generally obtain optional commitments to sell loans when we grant optional commitments to make loans, or on a limited basis we hedge some optional loan commitments by selling mortgage-backed securities on a forward basis. We opted to account for loans originated in our mortgage division, loans held for sale, at fair value which is based on what secondary markets are currently offering for portfolios with similar characteristics. Forward sale mortgage-backed securities and the value of the estimated loan commitments that are hedged are also accounted for at fair value. Assumptions related to the closing ratio of loan commitments and the projected profit from loan sales are used to estimate the fair value of hedged loan commitments. We also make provisions for future warranty claims that arise from borrower fraud or from our underwriting errors that are later detected on residential mortgage loans that are sold. The provision for warranty claims involves a charge against income and an increase in an estimated liability for warranty claims based primarily on the volume of originations and projected losses on past and current originations. As claims are paid the liability account is reduced. Warranty provisions involve a number of assumptions including the quality of loans originated, the volume of loans originated, changes in real estate values, and historical and projected warranty claims. Securities available-for-sale, certain mortgage loans held for sale, derivative assets, and derivative liabilities are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. From time to time, certain assets, consisting primarily of other real estate owned and impaired loans, may be recorded at fair value on a non-recurring basis. These non-recurring fair value adjustments typically are a result of the application of lower of cost or fair value accounting or a write-down occurring during the period. For example, if the fair value of an asset in these categories falls below its cost basis, it is considered to be at fair value at the end of the period of the adjustment. In periods where there is no adjustment, the asset is generally not considered to be at fair value. Management believes this is a critical accounting policy because the estimation of fair value involves a high degree of complexity and requires us to make subjective judgments that often require assumptions or estimates about various matters. Comparison of Financial Condition Assets. Our total assets increased by $18.5 million or 2.75% from $673.3 million at December 31, 2011, to $691.9 million at December 31, 2012. Loans held for sale increased by $39.8 million due to strong originations by our mortgage loan division and slower funding of loan sales by investors during the fourth quarter of 2012. Loans held for investment decreased by $25.3 million or 5.2% during 2012, from declining loan originations, primarily commercial real estate loans, loan charge-offs, and repossessions. Carolina Bank, which makes both commercial and retail loans, experienced slow loan demand in 2011 and 2012 due to declining economic conditions in its primary lending markets, Guilford, Randolph, Alamance, and Forsyth Counties, North Carolina. Our compounded annual growth rate for the five years ending December 31, 2012 for loans held for investment and assets was 2.9% and 6.7%, respectively. 23 Liabilities . Total liabilities increased by $11.2 million or 1.8% from $626.8 million at December 31, 2011, to $638.0 million at December 31, 2012 due to overnight borrowings at the Federal Home Loan Bank in late December to fund loans held for sale. Deposits decreased by $5.7 million, or 1.0%, during 2012 as non-interest bearing demand and savings deposits increased while time deposits declined. The decline in deposits in 2012 was a result of pricing and the lack of asset growth which would require additional liquidity. The compounded annual growth rate for the five years ending December 31, 2012 for deposits was 7.1%. Over the long term, we plan to continue our efforts to gain deposits through quality service, convenient locations, and competitive pricing. While deposit growth is an ongoing goal, wholesale sources of funding such as Federal Home Loan Bank advances and repurchase borrowings, may be utilized where cost beneficial and when necessary to meet liquidity requirements. Federal Home Loan Bank advances increased $12.9 million in 2012 due to the year-end funding needs related to loans held for sale. Stockholders equity . Our total stockholders equity increased $7.3 million at December 31, 2012 to $53.9 million from $46.6 million at December 31, 2011, primarily from net income available to common shareholders of $6.3 million realized in 2012 and from an increase in accumulated other comprehensive income of $0.6 million related to unrealized gains on our available for sale securities portfolio. Asset Quality Our non-performing assets, composed of foreclosed real estate and other repossessed assets, non-accrual loans and non-performing restructured loans, totaled $19.0 million at December 31, 2012, compared to $29.6 million at December 31, 2011. Non-performing assets, as a percentage of total assets, was 2.75% and 4.40% at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. There were $0.03 million and $0 million in loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Foreclosed real estate and other repossessed assets were $5.9 million and $6.7 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Net loan charge-offs totaled $4.2 million and $7.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Impaired but still performing loans decreased to $15.0 million at December 31, 2012 from $22.6 million at December 31, 2011. In general, loans are impaired when, based on current information and events, collection of all contractual amounts due is not probable. The decrease in non-performing assets in 2012 from 2011 resulted from success in disposing of problem loans and real estate, from reduction in new additions to non-performing assets as a result of an improved credit culture, and from an improving economy. The economic conditions in our primary markets in North Carolina, while improved, continued to be stressed during 2012 and 2011 with higher than normal unemployment. The seasonally adjusted unemployment rate in North Carolina improved to 9.2% in December 2012 from 10.4% in December 2011. North Carolina s seasonally adjusted unemployment rate of 9.2% compares unfavorably to 7.8% for the United States. Our primary lending market in the Piedmont Triad experienced slightly higher unemployment rates than the North Carolina average in the past two years. The deteriorating economic conditions in our markets have negatively impacted our borrowers, particularly real estate developers and builders, over the past several years. Liquidity and Capital Resources The objective of our liquidity management is to ensure the availability of sufficient cash flows to meet all financial commitments and to capitalize on opportunities for expansion. Liquidity management addresses our ability to meet deposit withdrawals on demand or at contractual maturity, to repay borrowings as they mature, and to fund new loans and investments as opportunities arise. 24 Our primary sources of internally generated funds are principal and interest payments on loans receivable and cash flows generated from operations. External sources of funds include increases in deposits, repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased from banks and advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta. Carolina Bank is required under applicable federal regulations to maintain specified levels of liquid investments in qualifying types of investments. Cash and due from banks, interest-bearing deposits with banks, and investment securities available-for-sale are the primary liquid assets of Carolina Bank. We regularly monitor Carolina Bank s liquidity position to ensure its liquidity is sufficient to meet its needs. During the fourth quarter of 2012, we decreased our levels of short-term liquidity to fund the increased origination volume of residential mortgage loans that are held for sale. Since December 31, 2012, short-term liquidity has increased as loans held for sale have declined. We have also increased our secondary sources of liquidity during 2011 and 2012 as our credit availability for additional advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank and available discount borrowings from the Federal Reserve exceeded $158 million at December 31, 2012. We are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the banking regulatory agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate mandatory and possibly discretionary actions by the regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on our financial condition. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, we must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. Our capital amounts and classifications are subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk-weightings, and other factors. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, our levels of capital exceeded all applicable published regulatory requirements. Carolina Bank increased Tier 1 capital to average assets to 9.23% at December 31, 2012 through earnings and moderate asset growth from 8.02% at December 31, 2011. Due to our growth in recent years, the recent difficult economic environment, increased regulatory capital requirements, and our anticipation of continued growth, we issued $16 million in preferred stock to the United States Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program in January 2009 to increase our capital which could further support future growth and assist us in meeting future regulatory capital requirements. Results of Operations for the Years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 General . We had net income of $7.5 million and $2.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Net income available to common stockholders was $6.3 million, or $1.85 per diluted share, for 2012 compared to $1.2 million, or $0.36 per diluted share, for 2011. Net income available to common stockholders represents net income less preferred stock dividends and related discount accretion. The increase in net income in 2012 was primarily due to higher mortgage banking income, a lower provision for loan losses and a decline in impairments of other real estate owned. Net interest income, the difference between interest earned on interest-earning assets and interest incurred on interest-bearing liabilities, was $24.2 million in 2012 compared to $24.1 million in 2011, an increase of 0.4%. Non-interest income, principally service charges and fees, mortgage banking income, increase in cash value of life insurance, plus gain on sale of investments amounted to $19.7 million in 2012 and $11.2 million in 2011. Mortgage banking income increased approximately $8.4 million, or 88.8%, during 2012 due to lower interest rates and higher originations in 2012. Our provision for loan losses was $2.4 million and $6.9 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Lower loan charge-offs, decreased reserves on impaired loans, and a decline in loans outstanding resulted in a decrease in the provision for loan losses in 2012. We incurred non-interest expense of $30.2 million in 2012 and $25.5 million in 2011. The increase in non-interest expense of $4.8 million, or 18.7%, was primarily from increased salaries and benefits related to growth in mortgage banking and growth in incentive compensation. 25 The commercial/retail bank segment reported 2012 net income of $3.5 million compared to $1.1 million in 2011, primarily due to a lower provision for loan losses and decreased foreclosed property expense in 2012. Our mortgage division reported net income of $4.3 million in 2012 compared to net income of $1.5 million in 2011 due to higher mortgage originations and higher profit margins on loans sold during 2012. The holding company reported a net loss of $0.2 million in 2012 and 2011 related to interest expense on trust preferred subordinated debt and other corporate expenses. Segment information is detailed in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. Net interest income . Net interest income is the amount of interest earned on interest-earning assets such as loans, investments, and interest-earning deposits in other financial institutions less the interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities such as interest-bearing deposits and borrowed money. Net interest income is the principal source of our earnings. Net interest income is affected by the general level of interest rates, competition, and the volumes and mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. For the year ended December 31, 2012, net interest income increased by $0.1 million or 0.4% to $24.2 million from $24.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The net yield on average interest-earning assets was 3.89% in 2012 and 3.92% in 2011. The interest rate spread was 3.78% in 2012 and 3.82% in 2011. The decrease in the net yield on interest-earning assets and the interest rate spread in 2012 resulted from a greater drop in yields earned on interest-earning assets than the drop in the cost of deposits and other borrowings. There was a shift in assets from higher earning loans held for investment to lower earning loans held for sale and interest bearing deposits during 2012 which negatively impacted yields on interest-earning assets. The table below provides a detailed analysis of the effective yields and rates on the categories of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities for the years indicated. 26 For the Years Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Average Interest Average Average Interest Average Average Interest Average Balance (1.) Inc./Exp. Yield/Cost Balance (1.) Inc./Exp. Yield/Cost Balance (1.) Inc./Exp. Yield/Cost (Dollars in thousands) Interest-earning assets Interest bearing deposits $ 37,353 $ 93 0.25 % $ 31,890 $ 77 0.24 % $ 28,190 $ 78 0.28 % Taxable investments 32,572 1,195 3.67 % 34,001 1,419 4.17 % 32,466 1,637 5.04 % Non taxable investments (2.) 11,063 600 5.42 % 14,353 820 5.71 % 15,870 962 6.06 % Loans held for sale 80,269 2,954 3.68 % 42,961 1,853 4.31 % 44,985 2,063 4.59 % Loans (3.) 465,478 24,749 5.32 % 498,683 26,890 5.39 % 529,415 28,486 5.38 % Interest-earning assets 626,735 29,591 621,888 31,059 650,926 33,226 Interest-earning assets 4.72 % 4.99 % 5.10 % Non interest-earning assets 44,641 46,865 44,921 Total assets $ 671,376 $ 668,753 $ 695,847 Interest-bearing liabilities Interest checking $ 37,677 $ 71 0.19 % $ 33,889 $ 101 0.30 % $ 32,070 130 0.41 % Money market and savings 290,659 1,764 0.61 % 280,001 2,425 0.87 % 270,216 3,375 1.25 % Time certificates and IRAs 197,901 2,569 1.30 % 228,512 3,411 1.49 % 276,529 5,223 1.89 % Other borrowings 26,408 802 3.04 % 25,413 758 2.98 % 25,334 845 3.34 % Total interest-bearing liabilities 552,645 5,206 567,815 6,695 604,149 9,573 Cost of average Interest-bearing liabilities 0.94 % 1.18 % 1.58 % Non-interest-bearing liabilities Demand deposits 62,155 51,566 41,224 Other liabilities 6,481 4,039 3,910 Total non-interest-bearing liabilities 68,636 55,605 45,134 Total liabilities 621,281 623,420 649,283 Stockholders' equity 50,095 45,333 46,564 Total liabilities and equity $ 671,376 $ 668,753 $ 695,847 Net interest income $ 24,385 $ 24,364 $ 23,653 Net yield on average interest-earning assets 3.89 % 3.92 % 3.63 % Interest rate spread 3.78 % 3.82 % 3.52 % (1.) Average balances are computed on a daily basis. (2.) Interest income and yields related to certain investment securities exempt from federal income tax are stated on a fully taxable basis using a 34% federal tax rate, reduced by the nondeductible portion of interest expense. (3.) Nonaccrual loans are included in the average loan balance. 27 Rate/Volume analysis of net interest income . The effect of changes in average balances (volume) and rates on interest income, interest expense and net interest income for the period indicated is shown below. The effect of a change in the average balance has been determined by applying the average rate in the earlier period to the change in average balance in the later period, as compared with the earlier period. The effect of a change in the average rate has been determined by applying the average balance in the earlier period to the change in the average rate in the later period as compared with the earlier period. Changes resulting from average balance/rate variances have been allocated between volume and rate on a proportional basis. Rate / Volume Variance Analysis Years Ended December 31, 2012 vs. 2011 December 31, 2011 vs. 2010 Interest Increase (Decrease) Interest Increase (Decrease) Increase Due To Change in Increase Due To Change in (Decrease) Volume Rate (Decrease) Volume Rate ($ in thousands) Interest-earning assets: Interest bearing deposits $ 16 $ 14 $ 2 $ (1 ) $ 10 $ (11 ) Taxable investments (224 ) (58 ) (166 ) (218 ) 74 (292 ) Non taxable investments (220 ) (180 ) (40 ) (142 ) (89 ) (53 ) Loans held for sale 1,101 1,407 (306 ) (210 ) (90 ) (120 ) Loans (2,141 ) (1,769 ) (372 ) (1,596 ) (1,657 ) 61 Total interest-earning assets (1,468 ) (586 ) (882 ) (2,167 ) (1,752 ) (415 ) Interest-bearing liabilities: Interest checking $ (30 ) $ 10 $ (40 ) $ (29 ) $ 7 $ (36 ) Money market and savings (661 ) 89 (750 ) (950 ) 119 (1,069 ) Time certificates and IRAs (842 ) (427 ) (415 ) (1,812 ) (821 ) (991 ) Other borrowings 44 30 14 (87 ) 2 (89 ) Total interest-bearing liabilities (1,489 ) (298 ) (1,191 ) (2,878 ) (693 ) (2,185 ) Net interest income $ 21 $ (288 ) $ 309 $ 711 $ (1,059 ) $ 1,770 Net interest income was stable in 2012 compared to 2011. There was a positive shift in balances to lower cost interest checking, money market and savings deposits from higher cost time deposits, but a negative shift of higher yielding loans held for investment to loans held for sale and interest-bearing deposits during 2012. Provision for loan losses . The allowance for loan losses, established through charges to expense in the form of a provision for loan losses, allows for known and expected loan losses in our loan portfolio. The provision for loan losses decreased in 2012 to $2.4 million from $6.9 million in 2011, primarily because of lower specific allowances required on impaired loans and fewer charge-offs in 2012. Declining real estate values and tepid demand for new real estate negatively impacted the ability of many of our borrowers to make loan payments in 2009 through 2011 resulting in significant increases in loan charge-offs, non-performing loans, and impaired loans. The level of the allowance for loan losses is based on our estimate as to the amount required to maintain an allowance adequate enough to provide for known and expected losses. We consider, among other things, nonperforming loans, impaired loans, delinquencies, collateral values, loss trends, and general economic conditions when assessing the adequacy of the allowance. The allowance for loan losses was $9.9 million or 2.15% of loans and $11.8 million or 2.42% of loans at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The decreased provision for loan losses in 2012 primarily resulted from lower allowances on impaired loans and the positive impact of the lower net loan charge-offs on the loss trends that are used to calculate the allowance on the non-impaired loans. Loan charge-offs, net of recoveries, were $4.2 million and $7.4 million during 2012 and 2011, respectively. 28 The following table describes the activity relating to our allowance for loan losses for the years indicated: Analysis of the Allowance for Loan Losses At or for the Years Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 ($ in thousands) Beginning Balance $ 11,793 $ 12,359 $ 10,081 $ 5,760 $ 4,532 Provision for loan losses 2,360 6,850 15,133 10,520 1,910 Charge-Offs: Commercial (2,142 ) (569 ) (2,727 ) (397 ) (151 ) Real Estate (2,299 ) (7,617 ) (10,005 ) (5,735 ) (486 ) Consumer (20 ) (6 ) (237 ) (76 ) (57 ) Total (4,461 ) (8,192 ) (12,969 ) (6,208 ) (694 ) Recoveries: Commercial 122 100 64 7 - Real Estate 129 674 47 2 8 Consumer 1 2 3 - 4 Ending Balance $ 9,944 $ 11,793 $ 12,359 $ 10,081 $ 5,760 Non-interest income . Non-interest income consists principally of service charges and fees, mortgage banking income, investment services income, increase in cash value of life insurance, and gain on sale of investments. Non-interest income was $19.7 million and $11.2 million in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Service charges increased 14.2% in 2012 to $1.1 million, primarily from an increase in non-customer ATM fees and from commercial services. Mortgage banking income, which represents income earned from the origination and sale of residential mortgage loans, increased to $17.9 million in 2012 from $9.5 million in 2011 due to an increase in the profit margin on loan sales and a 57.2% increase in loan originations to $1.23 billion in 2012. The mortgage division originates residential mortgage loans through other banks and brokers in addition to retail loan officers, who are located in three loan production offices and in five of our banking offices, and sells the loans to investors. Most of the residential mortgage loans originated by the mortgage division are conforming conventional or government loans. Approximately 30% of the mortgage banking gross income recognized in 2012 and 2011 was generated by our retail mortgage loan officers. Netted against mortgage banking income are warranty claim provisions of $1.0 million in 2012 and $0.4 million in 2011. Warranty claim provisions provide a liability for future claims that might arise from borrower fraud that is later detected on loans we originated and sold or from underwriting errors we made on loans originated and sold. Warranty claim provisions increased in 2012 from 2011 due to the increase in originations and due to identification of potential new claims on pre-2010 originations. The liability to fund future warranty claims was $1.6 million and $0.8 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Five warranty claims totaling $0.2 million were paid in 2012 and nine claims totaling $0.6 million have been incurred since establishment of the mortgage division in 2007. 29 Other non-interest income included $0.4 million from the increase in cash value of life insurance and $0.3 million in investment services income in both 2012 and 2011. Gains on the sale of investments were $0.04 million in 2012 and $0.2 million in 2011. Non-interest expenses . Non-interest expenses were $30.2 million in 2012 compared to $25.5 million in 2011, an increase of $4.7 million or 18.7%. The increase in expenses in 2012 was due primarily to expansion of the mortgage division which experienced a 57.2% increase in residential mortgage loan originations in 2012. The number of full-time equivalent total employees increased from 174 at December 31, 2011 to 208 at December 31, 2012. Salaries and employee benefits increased $5.0 million, or 37.7%, to $18.1 million in 2012 from $13.1 million in 2011 for the following reasons: $2.8 million in increased salaries and benefits in the mortgage division to support the substantial growth in 2012 of which $1.6 million of the increase represented additional variable incentive compensation related to additional mortgage loan origination volume or net income of the mortgage division. $1.2 million in incentive compensation accrued in the commercial/retail bank related to attainment of specific EPS levels and specific attainment of goals and objectives during 2012. No such accrual was made in the previous three years due to non attainment of the EPS goal in 2009-2011. $0.8 million in increased salaries and benefits in the commercial/retail bank for merit increases and for new employees in support of the expanded mortgage division. $0.2 million increase in supplemental executive retirement benefit accruals related to lower interest rates used to compute plan accruals and due to continued service. Foreclosed property expense includes other real estate owned expenses, impairments of other real estate owned, gain (loss) on the sale of other real estate owned, and net rental income from other real estate owned. Foreclosed property expense decreased $1.2 million, or 30.5%, to $2.7 million primarily due to a $1.0 million decline in impairments of other real estate owned to $1.5 million during 2012. While local unemployment declined in 2012, real estate values continue to be depressed which is evidenced by the impairments that continued in other real estate owned in 2012. 30 Professional fees include legal fees, audit and accounting fees, director fees, regulatory expense, consulting fees and other fees paid to professional organizations for specialized services. Professional fees increased 37.8% in 2012 to $1.3 million due primarily to increased director fees, compliance fees for the mortgage division, and loan related legal expenses. We use an outside vendor who provides our data processing, and outside data processing expense increased 11.9% in 2012 to $0.9 million due to increased volumes in our mortgage division. FDIC insurance decreased 17.2% to $0.9 million in 2012 due to a change in the computation of insurance premiums based on assets rather than deposits. Income taxes . Income tax expense of $3.7 million, or 33.2% of income before income taxes in 2012, compared to $0.6 million, or 18.9% of income before income taxes in 2011. The more favorable tax rate in 2011 was primarily due to a higher percentage of non taxable income from municipal securities and from increase in cash value of life insurance to net income before income taxes and from fewer non-deductible expenses in 2011. Financial condition . Total assets were $691.9 million at December 31, 2012, an increase of 2.8% from total assets of $673.3 million at December 31, 2011. Most categories of assets decreased or experienced small increases in 2012 except loans held for sale which increased 43.3% to $131.8 million at December 31, 2012 due to increased lending and slower processing of loans sold in the fourth quarter of 2012. The increase in loans held for sale at December 31, 2012 was funded by a decrease in interest-bearing deposits with banks and from overnight borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank of $13.0 million. These overnight borrowings were paid off in January 2013 and deposits with banks increased due to a decline in loans held for sale to $105.8 million at January 31, 2013. Deposits declined 1% in 2012 as we adjusted our pricing to match our asset funding needs which declined during most of 2012. We periodically utilize wholesale deposit sources such as broker deposits and deposits from other depository institutions on a limited basis to meet specific asset/liability management needs or to realize substantially lower funding costs. We had approximately $31.3 million and $29.7 million in deposits from other depository institutions and $18.8 million and $29.0 million of brokered deposits at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. The decrease in these sources of deposits in 2012 was planned in an effort to better match our liquidity needs. We experienced a decline in loans held for investment and interest-bearing deposits with banks which together funded much of the $39.8 million increase in loans held for sale at December 31, 2012 from December 31, 2011. Interest-bearing deposits with banks of $7.2 million primarily represent overnight deposits with the Federal Reserve and Federal Home Loan Bank and declined $0.5 million at December 31, 2012 from a year ago. These deposits averaged $37.4 million during 2012. Investment securities declined $0.5 million in 2012. Loans held for investment decreased $25.3 million, or 5.2%, to $461.7 million at December 31, 2012, due to loan pay-offs, loan charge-offs, and repossessions of assets from non-performing loans. Prior to 2010, we experienced double digit growth in loans held for investment, but commercial and construction loan demand weakened in 2010, 2011 and 2012 as a result of declining real estate prices and weak economic growth. We believe our targeted marketing efforts, experienced lenders, local decision making, and emphasis on personal relationships and superior customer service have been key drivers of our loan growth in prior years; however, our emphasis on stronger risk management practices and a weak economy limited growth in 2010, 2011 and 2012. Approximately 85.6% of our loans at December 31, 2012 were secured by some form of real estate. At December 31, 2012, loans secured by residential properties in the form of home equity lines and closed end loans comprised 25.0% of our loan portfolio while construction development loans and commercial real estate loans comprised 14.0% and 46.6% of our loan portfolio, respectively. Another 13.3% of our loan portfolio were commercial and industrial loans with the balance in consumer and other loans. 31 Asset quality is a primary concern of our credit administration. A thorough credit analysis is made of most loans before origination. Experienced lenders and a credit administrator review the loans structure including terms, rate, collateral and repayment sources in addition to adherence to our lending policy. On an ongoing basis, a risk rating program and other credit administration tools are utilized to monitor loans and overall asset quality. Non-performing loans amounted to approximately $13.1 million, or 2.8% of loans outstanding, and $22.9 million, or 4.7% of loans outstanding, at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Our allowance for loan losses was 2.15% and 2.42% of loans outstanding at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Net loan charge-offs were 0.90% and 1.49% of average loans during 2012 and 2011, respectively. Investment securities declined slightly to $42.2 million at December 31, 2012 from $42.6 million at December 31, 2011, a decrease of 0.8%. Our investment securities portfolio consists primarily of mortgage-backed securities issued by the U.S. government and government sponsored entities, municipal securities, and corporate securities. Approximately 99.5% of the investment securities at December 31, 2012 were classified as available-for-sale and were recorded at market value. Changes in market value are reflected as a separate component of stockholders equity. We do not engage in the practice of trading securities. Other real estate owned which consists of foreclosed real estate declined $0.8 million, or 11.7% to $5.9 million at December 31, 2012 from $6.7 million at December 31, 2011. During 2012, other real estate owned increased $4.7 million from foreclosure and was reduced by sales of $4.2 million and by impairment charges of $1.2 million. We opened for business in November 1996 and have not paid any cash dividends to our stockholders. Stock dividends were paid in 2007, 2005, 2004, 2001, and 2000. Certain reclassifications were made to common stock from other equity accounts to record the stock dividends. Investment Portfolio. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, our investment portfolio comprised approximately 6.1% and 6.3% of total assets, respectively. The following table summarizes the carrying value amounts of securities at the dates indicated. Available-for-sale securities are reported at estimated fair value and held to maturity securities are reported at amortized cost. 32 Analysis of Investment Securities Amortized Cost and Market Values At December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Amortized Market Amortized Market Amortized Market Cost Value Cost Value Cost Value ($ in thousands) Available-for-Sale US agency securities $ - $ - $ - $ - $ 1,000 $ 1,011 Mortgage-backed securities 10,127 11,003 13,489 14,494 15,275 16,273 Municipal securities 16,938 18,347 16,531 17,767 19,685 19,271 Corporate securities 12,059 12,231 10,179 9,606 5,536 5,549 Unrestricted stock 266 455 266 341 533 681 39,390 42,036 40,465 42,208 42,029 42,785 Held-to-Maturity Mortgage-backed securities 211 225 392 420 563 596 Total $ 39,601 $ 42,261 $ 40,857 $ 42,628 $ 42,592 $ 43,381 The following table presents maturities and weighted average yields of debt securities at the date indicated. 33 Analysis of Investment Securities At December 31, 2012 Due One One Year Five Years Due Year or Through Through After Market Less Five Years Ten Years Ten Years Total Value ($ in thousands) Investment Securities Mortgage-backed securities $ 62 $ 806 $ 2,661 $ 6,809 $ 10,338 $ 11,228 Municipal securities - - 2,260 3,226 5,486 5,927 Tax-free municipal securities - - 2,098 9,354 11,452 12,420 Corporate securities - 10,622 1,437 - 12,059 12,231 Total $ 62 $ 11,428 $ 8,456 $ 19,389 $ 39,335 $ 41,806 Weighted Average Yields Mortgage-backed securities 3.53 % 5.53 % 4.43 % 3.50 % 3.89 % Municipal securities - - 4.79 % 3.92 % 4.28 % Tax-free municipal securities - - 4.66 % 5.76 % 5.56 % Corporate securities - 1.78 % 2.48 % - 1.86 % 3.53 % 2.04 % 4.25 % 4.66 % 3.81 % Loan Portfolio. Our loan portfolio is concentrated in real estate loans. Construction and development loans, which carry more risk during recessions and periods of falling real estate prices, represented 14.0% of the loan portfolio. Commercial real estate loans, secured by nonfarm nonresidential and multifamily properties, represent 46.6% of the loan portfolio and have experienced higher levels of charge-offs in the past two years. There are no foreign loans. The following table presents, at the dates indicated, the composition of our loan portfolio by loan type : Analysis of Loans At December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent ($ in thousands) Loans Secured by Real Estate: Construction development $ 64,669 14.01 % $ 51,383 10.55 % $ 113,564 22.09 % $ 122,072 23.01 % $ 119,795 23.89 % Commercial real estate 215,258 46.61 % 251,015 51.54 % 198,985 38.71 % 202,139 38.10 % 199,018 39.69 % Home equity lines 66,523 14.41 % 66,172 13.59 % 63,312 12.32 % 58,015 10.93 % 44,191 8.81 % Residential real esate 48,857 10.58 % 51,499 10.57 % 56,993 11.09 % 57,716 10.88 % 54,861 10.94 % Total Loans Secured by Real Estate 395,307 85.61 % 420,069 86.25 % 432,854 84.21 % 439,942 82.92 % 417,865 83.33 % Commercial and industrial 61,251 13.27 % 60,863 12.50 % 72,956 14.19 % 83,005 15.64 % 77,345 15.43 % Consumer other 5,170 1.12 % 6,099 1.25 % 8,219 1.60 % 7,659 1.44 % 6,214 1.24 % Total Loans Held for Investment $ 461,728 100.00 % $ 487,031 100.00 % $ 514,029 100.00 % $ 530,606 100.00 % $ 501,424 100.00 % 34 The table that follows shows the loan portfolio at December 31, 2012 by loan type, maturity and whether the interest rate is fixed or variable. Loans on non-accrual have been excluded. Analysis of Certain Loan Maturities As of December 31, 2012 Real Estate Commercial Consumer Other Total Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent Amount Percent ($ in thousands) Due within one year: $ 90,826 23.69 % $ 34,636 57.61 % $ 2,627 51.31 % $ 128,089 28.55 % Due after one year through five years: Fixed Rate 89,550 23.36 % 5,075 8.44 % 1,080 21.09 % 95,705 21.33 % Variable Rate 85,312 22.25 % 11,101 18.46 % 1,180 23.05 % 97,593 21.75 % 174,862 45.61 % 16,176 26.90 % 2,260 44.14 % 193,298 43.08 % Due after five years: Fixed Rate 32,472 8.47 % 7,929 13.19 % 233 4.55 % 40,634 9.06 % Variable Rate 85,256 22.23 % 1,384 2.30 % - 0.00 % 86,640 19.31 % 117,728 30.70 % 9,313 15.49 % 233 4.55 % 127,274 28.37 % $ 383,416 100.00 % $ 60,125 100.00 % $ 5,120 100.00 % $ 448,661 100.00 % A certain degree of risk is inherent in the extension of credit. We have established loan and credit policies designed to control both the types and amounts of risks assumed and to ultimately minimize credit losses. Such policies include limitations on loan-to-collateral values for various types of collateral, requirements for appraisals of certain real estate collateral, problem loan management practices and collection procedures, and non-accrual and charge-off guidelines. Loans secured by real estate mortgages comprised 85.6% and 86.3% of our loan portfolio at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Residential real estate loans consist mainly of first and second mortgages on single-family homes. Loan-to-value ratios for these loans are generally limited to 90% for second mortgages and 85% for first mortgages, unless private mortgage insurance is obtained. Commercial real estate loans are secured by business and commercial properties with loan-to-value ratios generally limited to 80%. The repayment of both residential and commercial real estate loans is dependent primarily on the income and cash flows of the borrowers with the real estate serving as a secondary source of repayment. Real estate construction loans generally consist of financing of commercial real estate projects and some one-to-four family dwellings. Usually the loan-to-cost ratios are limited to 80%, and permanent financing commitments are generally required prior to advancing loan proceeds. Commercial and industrial loans primarily represent loans to businesses and may be made on either a secured or unsecured basis. Commercial lending involves risk because repayment usually depends on the cash flows generated by a borrower s business, and the debt service capacity of a business can deteriorate because of downturns in national and local economic conditions. To manage this risk, initial and continuing financial analysis of a borrower s financial information is generally required. 35 Allowance for loan losses . The allowance for loan losses is increased by direct charges to operating expense. Losses on loans are charged against the allowance in the period in which management has determined that such loans have become uncollectible, or in the case of non-performing real estate loans, when updated appraisals indicate a loss in value. Recoveries of previously charged-off loans are credited to the allowance. Our allowance for loan losses is composed of two parts, a specific portion related to impaired loans and a general section related to loans that are not impaired. Loans are impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that all amounts due according to the contractual terms will not be collected. Our impaired loans decreased to $28.1 million at December 31, 2012 from $45.5 million at December 31, 2011, primarily because non-performing loans declined $9.8 million to $13.1 million at December 31, 2012 and because accruing troubled debt restructurings declined $4.7 million to $13.8 million at December 31, 2012. The quality of our loan portfolio improved in 2012 due to our dual focus of disposing of problem loans and more careful underwriting of new loans. The specific portion of our allowance for loan losses, which relates to impaired loans, decreased to $1.8 million at December 31, 2012 from $2.7 million at December 31, 2011. The general allowance, the difference between our allowance for loan losses and the specific portion of the allowance for loan losses, decreased to $8.2 million at December 31, 2012 from $9.1 million at December 31, 2011. These allowances apply to non-impaired loans and were determined by applying estimated loss ratios inherent in the loan portfolio, ranging from 0.20% on multifamily loans to 4.04% on construction and development loans, to categories of performing loans at each period end. We changed from using the latest eight quarters in 2011 to the latest twelve quarters in 2012 to determine the estimated loss ratios inherent in the loan portfolio because we believe the longer period is more representative of expected losses. The change in 2012 to using a longer look back period to determine the estimated loss ratios resulted in a higher allowance for loan losses in 2012 than would have been computed using the older methodology since 52.6% of the net loan charge-offs during the past three years occurred in 2010, the year that would have been eliminated under the prior methodology. The general section of our allowance also includes a qualitative component which is calculated based on nine environmental factors such as delinquency trends, net loan charge-offs in the current period compared to historical loan charge-offs, the current level of nonperforming loans compared to historical levels, changes in economic and business conditions that affect the collectability of the loan portfolio and changes in the value of collateral dependent loans. The qualitative component of our general section of the allowance decreased to $1.2 million at December 31, 2012 from $1.6 million at December 31, 2011, primarily due to positive delinquency trends, lower loan charge-offs, and lower levels of nonaccrual loans in the construction and development loan portfolio. 36 The following table presents the allocation of the allowance for loan losses at the dates indicated, compared with the percent of loans in the applicable categories of total loans. At December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 % Loans % Loans % Loans % Loans % Loans in Each in Each in Each in Each in Each Amount Category Amount Category Amount Category Amount Category Amount Category ($ in thousands) Balance at end of period applicable to: Real Estate Loans Construction development $ 2,349 14.01 % $ 2,948 10.55 % $ 4,478 22.09 % $ 2,993 23.01 % $ 1,299 23.89 % Commercial real estate 4,068 46.61 % 3,690 51.54 % 3,364 38.71 % 2,961 38.10 % 2,217 39.69 % Home equity lines of credit 609 14.41 % 1,126 13.59 % 818 12.32 % 903 10.93 % 226 8.81 % Residential real estate 863 10.58 % 994 10.57 % 846 11.09 % 856 10.88 % 635 10.94 % 7,889 85.61 % 8,758 86.25 % 9,506 84.21 % 7,713 82.92 % 4,377 83.33 % Commercial and Consumer Loans Commercial industrial 1,885 13.27 % 2,985 12.50 % 2,746 14.19 % 2,025 15.64 % 932 15.43 % Consumer and other 133 1.12 % 46 1.25 % 79 1.60 % 333 1.44 % 155 1.24 % Unallocated 37 4 28 10 296 Total $ 9,944 100.00 % $ 11,793 100.00 % $ 12,359 100.00 % $ 10,081 100.00 % $ 5,760 100.00 % Nonperforming loans . When a loan is past due 90 days as to interest or principal or there is serious doubt as to collectability, the accrual of interest is generally discontinued unless the estimated fair value of the collateral is sufficient to assure the collection of the principal balance and accrued interest. A non-accrual loan is not returned to accrual status unless principal and interest are current and the borrower has demonstrated the ability to continue making payments as agreed. The following table sets forth information on non-accrual loans, restructured loans, total nonperforming loans, and nonperforming assets at the dates indicated: 37 Nonperforming Assets At December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 ($ in thousands) Nonperforming restructured loans $ 7,443 $ 9,060 $ 356 $ - $ - Other nonaccrual loans 5,624 13,855 27,357 14,163 5,656 Total nonperforming loans 13,067 22,915 27,713 14,163 5,656 Real estate owned 5,940 6,728 9,848 12,546 728 Other repossessed assets - - 15 1,418 - Total nonperforming assets $ 19,007 $ 29,643 $ 37,576 $ 28,127 $ 6,384 Accruing loans past due 90 days or more $ 33 $ - $ 2,326 $ - $ - Performing restructured loans 13,822 18,502 4,972 - - Allowance for loan losses 9,944 11,793 12,359 10,081 5,760 Nonperforming loans to period end loans held for investment 2.83 % 4.71 % 5.39 % 2.67 % 1.13 % Allowance for loan losses to nonperforming loans 76.10 % 51.46 % 44.60 % 71.18 % 101.84 % Nonperforming assets to total assets 2.75 % 4.40 % 5.55 % 4.04 % 1.04 % Nonperforming assets decreased in 2012 from 2011 but are still elevated due to the decline in economic conditions in our lending markets over the past several years. Construction and land development loans were particularly affected by the economic downturn as demand for new housing or developed property declined from prior years. Our construction and land development loans had the highest level of charge-offs in 2011 and 2010, but charge-offs in this area declined sharply in 2012 and the quality of the portfolio improved materially in 2012 as evidenced by the declining level of impaired loans as noted in the tables below and from improvement in internal loan grades as shown in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements. During 2012, we decreased our restructuring of loans to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty as new troubled debt restructurings, post-modification, declined to $2.3 million in 2012 from $26.4 million in 2011. Performing restructured loans also decreased to $13.8 million at December 31, 2012 from $18.5 million at December 31, 2011. The following table gives expanded disclosure of our loans outstanding and impaired loans by loan type along with specific loan loss allowances at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, and net loan charge-offs in 2012 and 2011. At December 31, 2012 Impaired Loans Year to Date Loans Outstanding Specific Loan Net Loan Balances Percent Balances Loss Allowances Charge-offs (Dollars in thousands) Real Estate Loans: Construction development $ 64,669 14.01 % $ 1,942 $ - $ 149 Commercial real estate 215,258 46.62 % 19,724 1,309 1,214 Home equity lines 66,523 14.41 % 778 187 319 Residential real estate 48,857 10.58 % 4,416 134 488 Total real estate 395,307 85.61 % 26,860 1,630 2,170 Commercial and industrial 61,251 13.27 % 1,198 95 2,020 Consumer other 5,170 1.12 % 52 50 19 Total loans held for investment $ 461,728 100.00 % $ 28,110 $ 1,775 $ 4,209 38 At December 31, 2011 Impaired Loans Year to Date Loans Outstanding Specific Loan Net Loan Balances Percent Balances Loss Allowances Charge-offs (Dollars in thousands) Real Estate Loans: Construction development $ 51,383 10.55 % $ 4,606 $ 23 $ 4,970 Commercial real estate 251,015 51.54 % 27,183 595 835 Home equity lines 66,172 13.59 % 1,858 556 390 Residential real estate 51,499 10.57 % 5,978 165 748 Total real estate 420,069 86.25 % 39,625 1,339 6,943 Commercial and industrial 60,863 12.50 % 5,868 1,398 469 Consumer other 6,099 1.25 % 10 - 4 Total loans held for investment $ 487,031 100.00 % $ 45,503 $ 2,737 $ 7,416 Deposits . The maturity distribution of time deposits of $100,000 or more at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is presented below. Such deposits may be more volatile and interest rate sensitive than other deposits. Our deposit focus in 2012 centered on increasing lower cost demand accounts and lowering the pricing on time deposits to improve our net interest income which resulted in a decline in time deposits. Certificates of Deposit in Amounts of $100,000 or More At December 31, Remaining maturity: 2012 2011 2010 (in thousands) Three months or less $ 7,103 $ 17,737 $ 45,378 Over three through six months 19,151 55,542 22,979 Over six through twelve months 24,703 26,292 24,398 Over twelve months 51,340 21,454 39,792 $ 102,297 $ 121,025 $ 132,547 Interest rate sensitivity. Interest rate sensitivity management is concerned with the timing and magnitude of re-pricing assets compared to liabilities and is a part of asset/liability management. It is the objective of interest rate sensitivity management to generate stable growth in net interest income, and to control the risks associated with interest rate movements. We measure interest rate risk by using simulation analysis. Prior to 2010, simulation analysis indicated, in the absence of growth or changes in the mix of assets and liabilities, our net interest income generally increased when short-term interest rates rose and declined when short-term interest rates fell. In late 2010, we set our Carolina Bank prime at 4.50% when the Wall Street Journal Prime declined to 3.25% with the expectation that the Carolina Bank prime would not rise again until the Wall Street Journal Prime exceeded 4.50%. Approximately 47.3% of our loans held for investment, or $218.3 million at December 31, 2012, adjust with the Carolina Bank prime. We also implemented floors on a number of our variable rate loans which improves our loan yields in a low interest rate environment. Our net yield on average interest-earning assets decreased slightly to 3.89% in 2012 from 3.92% in 2011 because of a change in asset mix from loans held for investment which have a higher yield to interest-bearing deposits in banks and loans held for sale which have lower yields. Our simulation analysis indicates that our net interest margin will decline approximately 4.5% in one year, if interest rates immediately rise 1% and will not increase above current projected levels until interest rates rise between 2% and 3%. The delay in adjusting our loans tied to the Carolina Bank prime or at floors is the major reason for the potential decline in net interest income as the Wall Street Journal Prime increases. 39 The table below reflects the balances of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities at the earlier of their re-pricing or maturity dates. Fixed rate loans are reflected at their contractual maturity date and variable rate loans are reflected when the loans may be re-priced contractually, except variable loans that have reached their floors are treated as fixed rate loans. Investments in restricted and unrestricted stocks are excluded from the presentation. Interest-bearing liabilities with no contractual maturity, such as interest-bearing transaction accounts and savings deposits, are reflected in the earliest re-pricing interval due to contractual arrangements which give the bank the opportunity to vary rates paid on these deposits within a thirty day or shorter period. The interest rate sensitivity of our assets and liabilities illustrated in the following table would vary substantially if different assumptions were used or if actual experience differs from that indicated by such assumptions. Repricing Schedule as of December 31, 2012 More than 0-90 91-365 1 Year to Over Days Days 3 Years 3 Years Total (Dollars in Thousands) Interest-earning assets Interest-bearing deposits $ 7,186 $ - $ - $ - $ 7,186 Investment securities 13,223 1,608 1,281 25,680 41,792 Loans held for sale 131,762 - - - 131,762 Loans 84,403 76,193 87,224 200,841 448,661 Total 236,574 77,801 88,505 226,521 629,401 Interest-bearing liabilities Savings, NOW and money market 343,740 - - - 343,740 Time Deposits 17,088 69,218 65,888 21,959 174,153 Federal Home Loan Bank advances 13,024 73 204 2,681 15,982 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 1,950 - - - 1,950 Subordinated debentures 19,563 - - - 19,563 Total 395,365 69,291 66,092 24,640 555,388 Interest sensitive gap $ (158,791 ) $ 8,510 $ 22,413 $ 201,881 $ 74,013 Cumulative gap $ (158,791 ) $ (150,281 ) $ (127,868 ) $ 74,013 $ 74,013 Ratio of interest-sensitive assets to interest-sensitive liabilities 59.84 % 112.28 % 133.91 % 919.32 % 113.33 % Cumulative ratio of interest-sensitive assets to interest-sensitive liabilities 59.84 % 67.66 % 75.91 % 113.33 % 113.33 % 40 Return on equity and assets . The following table shows the return on assets (net income divided by average total assets), return on equity (net income divided by average equity), cash dividend payout ratio (cash dividends declared divided by net income), and equity to asset ratio (average equity divided by average total assets) for each period indicated. For the Years Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Return on Average Assets 1.12 % 0.36 % -0.34 % Return on Average Stockholders' Equity 14.98 % 5.29 % -5.14 % Dividend Payout Ratio - - - Average Stockholders' Equity as a Percentage of Average Assets 7.46 % 6.78 % 6.69 % Capital resources . Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. and Carolina Bank are subject to various regulatory capital adequacy standards. Under these standards, financial institutions are required to maintain minimum ratios of capital to risk-weighted assets and average total assets. Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. and Carolina Bank exceeded all minimum published capital requirements, and Carolina Bank met the requirements to be categorized as well capitalized at December 31, 2012 and 2011. The capital ratios for Carolina Bank Holdings consolidated and Carolina Bank are detailed in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements. Included in the regulatory capital of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. and Subsidiary is $10.0 million in junior subordinated debentures ( trust preferred securities ) which has been primarily reinvested in the Bank. These trust preferred securities qualify as Tier 1 capital under current regulatory guidelines; however, the Federal Reserve has proposed legislation to phase out Tier 1 capital treatment for trust preferred securities along with a number of other proposals which would likely increase capital requirements including a common equity requirement. Future capital requirements are currently uncertain until new capital regulations are finalized. Carolina Bank issued $9.3 million in junior subordinated debentures in 2008 which is included in the regulatory capital of the Bank and the consolidated capital of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc and Subsidiary as Tier 2 capital. These junior subordinated debentures lose 20% of their capital status per year over a five year period beginning in September 2013. On January 9, 2009 we issued $16 million in preferred stock to the United States Treasury under the Capital Purchase Program to help support future growth. The preferred stock is included in the consolidated capital of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. and Subsidiary, and $13 million of this capital, which was reinvested in Carolina Bank, is included in the Bank s capital. Carolina Bank has an internal goal to use its best efforts to maintain Tier 1 capital to average assets above 8% as long as the ratio of classified assets to capital is above 50%, and Carolina Bank has exceeded the goal during all of 2012 with Tier 1 Capital to average assets at 9.23% at December 31, 2012. Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. paid all interest payments on its trust preferred securities but deferred dividend payments on its preferred stock during 2012. The deferred preferred stock dividend payments were paid current in January 2013 when regulatory approval was no longer required for such payments. No common stock dividends are anticipated in the near future. 41 Inflation . Since our assets and liabilities are primarily monetary in nature, our performance is more affected by changes in interest rates than by inflation. Interest rates generally increase as the rate of inflation increases, but the magnitude of the change in rates may not necessarily be the same. While the effect of inflation on a financial institution is normally not as significant as is its influence on those businesses which have large investments in plant and inventories, it does have an effect. During periods of high inflation, there are normally corresponding increases in the money supply, and financial institutions will normally experience above average growth in assets, loans and deposits. Also, general increases in the prices of goods and services will result in increased operating expenses. °Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK. Not applicable to smaller reporting companies. 42 °Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA. Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Stockholders Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. and Subsidiary We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. and Subsidiary (the Company ) as of December 31, 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders' equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of their internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. and Subsidiary as of December 31, 2012, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. /s/ Elliott Davis, PLLC Charlotte, North Carolina March 25, 2013 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM The Board of Directors and Stockholders Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. and Subsidiary Greensboro, North Carolina We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. and subsidiary (the Company ) as of December 31, 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in stockholders equity, and cash flows for the year then ended. The Company s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. and subsidiary as of December 31, 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Raleigh, North Carolina March 22, 2012 43 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Consolidated Balance Sheets December 31, 2012 and 2011 December 31, 2012 2011 (in thousands, except share data) Assets Cash and due from banks $ 7,913 $ 5,664 Interest-bearing deposits with banks 7,186 7,647 Securities available-for-sale, at fair value 42,036 42,208 Securities held-to-maturity 211 392 Loans held for sale 131,762 91,955 Loans 461,728 487,031 Less allowance for loan losses (9,944 ) (11,793 ) Net loans 451,784 475,238 Premises and equipment, net 17,732 17,442 Other real estate owned 5,940 6,728 Bank-owned life insurance 10,765 10,385 Other assets 16,539 15,666 Total assets $ 691,868 $ 673,325 Liabilities and Stockholders' Equity Deposits Non-interest bearing demand $ 73,032 $ 57,475 NOW, money market and savings 343,740 324,449 Time 174,153 214,715 Total deposits 590,925 596,639 Advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank 15,982 3,075 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 1,950 1,536 Subordinated debentures 19,563 19,489 Other liabilities and accrued expenses 9,586 6,028 Total liabilities 638,006 626,767 Commitments and contingencies - Note 11 Stockholders' equity Preferred stock, no par value, authorized 1,000,000 shares; issued and outstanding 16,000 shares 15,573 15,177 Common stock, $1 par value; authorized 20,000,000 shares; issued and outstanding 3,387,045 3,387 3,387 Common stock warrants 1,841 1,841 Additional paid-in capital 15,906 15,870 Retained earnings 15,408 9,132 Stock in directors' rabbi trust (1,050 ) (875 ) Directors' deferred fees obligation 1,050 875 Accumulated other comprehensive income 1,747 1,151 Total stockholders equity 53,862 46,558 Total liabilities and stockholders equity $ 691,868 $ 673,325 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 44 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Consolidated Statements of Income For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 2012 2011 (in thousands, except per share data) Interest income Loans $ 27,703 $ 28,743 Investment securities, taxable 1,195 1,419 Investment securities, non taxable 402 551 Interest from deposits in banks 93 77 Total interest income 29,393 30,790 Interest expense NOW, money market, savings 1,835 2,526 Time deposits 2,569 3,411 Other borrowed funds 802 758 Total interest expense 5,206 6,695 Net interest income 24,187 24,095 Provision for loan losses 2,360 6,850 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 21,827 17,245 Non-interest income Service charges 1,126 986 Mortgage banking income 17,910 9,488 Gain on sale of investment securities available-for-sale 37 239 Other 577 469 Total non-interest income 19,650 11,182 Non-interest expense Salaries and benefits 18,085 13,129 Occupancy and equipment 2,693 2,519 Foreclosed property expense 2,663 3,830 Professional fees 1,280 929 Outside data processing 887 793 FDIC insurance 850 1,026 Advertising and promotion 797 731 Stationery, printing and supplies 640 614 Other 2,348 1,902 Total non-interest expense 30,243 25,473 Income before income taxes 11,234 2,954 Income tax expense 3,732 557 Net income 7,502 2,397 Dividends and accretion on preferred stock 1,226 1,174 Net income available to common stockholders $ 6,276 $ 1,223 Net income per common share Basic $ 1.85 $ 0.36 Diluted $ 1.85 $ 0.36 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 45 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 2012 2011 (in thousands) Net income $ 7,502 $ 2,397 Other comprehensive income: Investment securities available-for-sale: Unrealized holding gains 939 1,227 Tax effect (319 ) (417 ) Reclassification of gains recognized in net income (37 ) (239 ) Tax effect 13 81 596 652 Comprehensive income $ 8,098 $ 3,049 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 46 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 Stock in Directors' Accumulated Common Additional Directors' Deferred Other Preferred Common Stock Paid-In Retained Rabbi Fees Comprehensive Stock Stock Warrants Capital Earnings Trust Obligation Income Total (in thousands) Balance, December 31, 2010 $ 14,811 $ 3,387 $ 1,841 $ 15,834 $ 7,910 $ (718 ) $ 718 $ 499 $ 44,282 Net income - - - - 2,397 - - - 2,397 Other comprehensive income, net of tax - - - - - - - 652 652 Directors' fees deferred less payment of deferred fees - - - - - (157 ) 157 - - Stock options expensed - - - 36 - - - - 36 Accretion of preferred stock discount 366 - - - (366 ) - - - - Preferred stock dividends declared - - - - (809 ) - - - (809 ) Balance, December 31, 2011 15,177 3,387 1,841 15,870 9,132 (875 ) 875 1,151 46,558 Net income - - - - 7,502 - - - 7,502 Other comprehensive income, net of tax - - - - - - - 596 596 Directors' fees deferred less payment of deferred fees - - - - - (175 ) 175 - - Stock options expensed - - - 36 - - - - 36 Accretion of preferred stock discount 396 - - - (396 ) - - - - Preferred stock dividends declared - - - - (830 ) - - - (830 ) Balance, December 31, 2012 $ 15,573 $ 3,387 $ 1,841 $ 15,906 $ 15,408 $ (1,050 ) $ 1,050 $ 1,747 $ 53,862 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 47 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 2012 2011 (in thousands) Cash flows from operating activities Net income $ 7,502 $ 2,397 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash used for operating activities Provision for loan losses 2,360 6,850 Depreciation 881 908 Increase in cash surrender value of bank-owned life insurance (380 ) (382 ) Stock-based compensation expense 36 36 Deferred income tax (benefit) 41 (930 ) Accretion, net (64 ) (16 ) Amortization of subordinated debt discount 74 75 Increase in fair value of loans held for sale (522 ) (281 ) Loss on sale of other real estate owned 202 316 Gain on sale of investments (37 ) (239 ) Gain on sale of loans held for sale (18,363 ) (9,743 ) Impairment of other real estate owned 1,466 2,442 Proceeds from sale of loans held for sale 1,213,572 755,014 Originations of loans held for sale (1,234,494 ) (782,984 ) Loss on sale of premises and equipment 8 107 (Increase) decrease in other assets (1,221 ) 1,336 Increase in other liabilities and accrued expenses 3,143 781 Net cash used for operating activities (25,796 ) (24,313 ) Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of investment securities available-for-sale (5,378 ) (19,686 ) Maturities and calls of securities available-for-sale 3,164 5,113 Repayments from mortgage-backed securities available-for-sale 3,390 6,675 Repayments from mortgage-backed securities held-to-maturity 181 168 Net decrease in loans 16,377 14,091 Proceeds from sales of investment securities - 9,722 Improvements to other real estate owned (177 ) (123 ) (Purchases) less sales of premises and equipment (1,179 ) 165 Proceeds from sales of other real estate owned 4,014 5,990 Net cash provided by investing activities 20,392 22,115 Cash flows from financing activities Net decrease in deposits (5,714 ) (7,928 ) Net increase (decrease) in Federal Home Loan Advances 12,907 (90 ) Increase in securities sold under agreements to repurchase 414 1,104 Dividends paid (415 ) (403 ) Net cash provided by (used for) financing activities 7,192 (7,317 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,788 (9,515 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 13,311 22,826 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 15,099 $ 13,311 Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information Cash paid during the year for interest $ 5,486 $ 6,818 Cash paid during the year for income taxes $ 4,190 $ 1,265 Supplemental disclosure of non-cash transactions Transfer of loans to other real estate owned $ 4,717 $ 5,419 Dividends declared but not paid $ 820 $ 406 Accretion of preferred stock discount $ 396 $ 366 Change in unrealized gains on securities available-for-sale, net of tax $ 596 $ 652 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 48 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 1 - Summary of significant accounting policies Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (the Holding Company ) is a North Carolina corporation organized in 2000. In August 2000 pursuant to the plan of exchange approved by the shareholders of Carolina Bank (the Bank ), all of the outstanding shares of common stock of the Bank were exchanged for shares of common stock of the Holding Company. The Holding Company presently has no employees. The Bank was incorporated in August 1996, and began banking operations in November 1996. It is engaged in lending and deposit gathering activities in Guilford, Alamance, Randolph and Forsyth counties of North Carolina and operates under the laws of North Carolina, the Rules and Regulations of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks. The Bank has four locations in Greensboro and an office in Asheboro, Burlington, High Point and Winston-Salem. All banking offices are in the Piedmont Triad region of North Carolina. A wholesale mortgage division is located at the Greensboro corporate headquarters, and mortgage loan production offices are located in Burlington, Hillsborough, and Raleigh. The following is a description of the significant accounting and reporting policies that the Holding Company and Bank (collectively the Company ) follows in preparing and presenting their consolidated financial statements. (a) Basis of presentation and consolidation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Holding Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, the Bank. Carolina Bank also owns two limited liability companies for the purpose of holding foreclosed real estate, the assets and operations of which are consolidated into Carolina Bank and included herein. All significant inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The Company s financial statements are presented in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) Topic 105, The FASB Accounting Standards Codification and The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles , which codifies generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) in the United States. (b) Use of estimates The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change in the near term relate to the determination of the allowance for loan losses and the valuation of other real estate owned. 49 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 1 - Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) (c) Securities Investments in equity securities that have readily determinable fair values and all investments in debt securities are classified at acquisition into one of three categories and accounted for as follows: securities held-to-maturity - reported at amortized cost, trading securities - reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in earnings, or; securities available-for-sale - reported at estimated fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported as a separate component of comprehensive income (net of tax effect). The Company does not engage in any securities trading activities. Gains and losses on sales of securities are recognized on a specific identification basis. Purchases and sales of investments are recorded on a trade-date basis. Premiums and discounts are amortized into interest income using a method that approximates the level yield method. An investment in the Federal Home Loan Bank of $1,729,000 and $1,786,000 at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, is included in other assets and represents restricted stock which is carried at cost and is required for advances or borrowings. An investment in Pacific Coast Bankers Bancshares of $102,000 at December 31, 2012 and 2011 is included in other assets and carried at cost. (d) Loans held for sale and hedging activities Loans held for sale represent residential real estate loans originated by the mortgage division, which was formed in 2007. Generally, optional commitments to sell these loans are made shortly after origination commitments are entered into with borrowers. The Company opted to account for loans held for sale at fair value which is measured based on what secondary markets are currently offering for portfolios with similar characteristics. The Company also sells mortgage-backed securities on a forward basis to hedge some of its origination commitments to borrowers. Forward sale mortgage backed securities and the value of the estimated loan commitments that are hedged are also accounted for at fair value. Assumptions related to the closing ratio of loan commitments and the projected profit from loan sales are used to estimate the fair value of hedged loan commitments. These estimates of fair value vary based on the level of interest rates and demand for residential mortgage loans. (e) Loans and allowance for loan losses Loans are carried at their principal amount outstanding. Interest income is recorded as earned on the accrual basis. Loan origination fees and certain origination costs are capitalized with the net fee or cost recognized as an adjustment to interest income using the interest method. 50 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 1 - Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) The Company uses the allowance method in providing for loan losses. The provision for loan losses is based upon management s estimate of the amount needed to maintain the allowance for loan losses at an adequate level to cover known and inherent risks of loss in the loan portfolio. In determining the provision amount, management gives consideration to current and anticipated economic conditions, the growth and composition of the loan portfolio, the relationship of the allowance for loan losses to outstanding loans, delinquencies, loss trends, and other factors. Management believes that the allowance for loan losses is appropriate in light of the risk inherent in the loan portfolio. While management uses the best information available to make evaluations, future adjustments may be necessary if economic and other conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used. The Company changed its allowance methodology during 2012 to more accurately reflect the estimated loss ratios inherent in the loan portfolio by increasing the look back period for computing historical losses to the most recent three years from the most recent two years, adjusted for certain subjective factors. Net loan charge-offs, which are loan charge-offs less recoveries, are the basis for computing loan loss trends, and the Company generally records charge-offs on non-performing real estate loans when new appraisals are obtained rather than waiting until collection efforts had been exhausted. Net loan charge-offs for 2012, 2011, and 2010 were $4,209,000, $7,416,000, and $12,855,000, respectively. Management considers loans to be impaired when based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Factors that influence management s judgments include, but are not limited to, loan payment pattern, source of repayment, and value of collateral, if any. A loan would not be considered impaired if an insignificant delay in loan payment occurs and management expects to collect all amounts due. The major sources of identification of loans to be evaluated for impairment include past due and non-accrual reports, internally generated lists of certain risk grades, and regulatory reports of examination. Impaired loans are measured using either the discounted expected cash flow method or the value of collateral method. When the ultimate collectability of an impaired loan s principal is in doubt, wholly or partially, all cash receipts are applied to principal. The accrual of interest on loans is discontinued when, in management s opinion, the borrower may be unable to meet all payments as they become due. When the interest accrual is discontinued, all unpaid accrued interest is reversed and income is recognized only to the extent cash payments are received. (f) Other real estate owned Properties acquired through, or in lieu of, loan foreclosure are held for sale and are initially recorded at fair value less costs to sell at the date of foreclosure. Subsequent to foreclosure, valuations are periodically performed by management and the assets are carried at the lower of carrying amount or the new fair value less costs to sell. Fair value is generally determined by appraisal. 51 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 1 - Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) (g) Premises and equipment Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives of the respective assets on the straight-line basis. Leasehold improvements are amortized over a term which includes the remaining lease term and probable renewal periods. Expenditures for major renewals and betterments are capitalized and those for maintenance and repairs are charged to operating expenses as incurred. (h) Income taxes Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the consolidated financial statement carrying amount of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered in income. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance if it is more likely than not that the tax benefits will not be realized. (i) Cash and cash equivalents For purposes of reporting cash flows, cash and cash equivalents includes cash and due from banks, federal funds sold, and interest-bearing deposits with banks. The Company maintains due from accounts with correspondent banks. During the normal course of business, the Company may have cash deposits with these banks that are in excess of federally insured limits. (j) Income per common share Basic income per common share is computed based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted income per share includes the dilutive effects of stock options. (k) Stock options The Company s shareholders approved the 2009 Omnibus Stock Ownership and Long Term Incentive Plan ( Omnibus Plan ) in 2009 to replace three expired stock option plans, a nonqualified plan for directors (Director Plan) and two incentive stock option plans for management and employees (Employee Plans). The Omnibus Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, non-qualified stock options, restricted stock, long-term incentive compensation units and stock appreciation rights to employees and directors. An aggregate of 500,000 shares of the Company s common stock have been reserved for issuance under the terms of the Omnibus Plan. No awards have been made under the Omnibus Plan since inception. 52 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 1 - Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) The Company adopted Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation in 2006 under the modified prospective application method. The fair value of options granted in 2007 under the Employee Plans was $178,000, of which $36,000 was expensed in both 2012 and 2011. As of December 31, 2012, there was no unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested share-based compensation. The fair value of each option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted average assumptions for 2007: dividend yield of 0%, expected volatility of 32%, risk-free interest rate of 3.90%, and weighted average expected lives of eight years. The weighted average fair value per share of options granted for the year ended December 31, 2007 was $5.28. Following is a summary of stock options outstanding under both plans, adjusted for the stock splits that have occurred in prior years: Director Plan Employee Plan Weighted Aggregate Weighted Aggregate Average Intrinsic Average Intrinsic Exercise Value Exercise Value Shares Price ($000s) Shares Price ($000s) Balance at January 1, 2011 11,390 $ 4.73 $ - 176,005 $ 9.24 $ - Issued - - - - - - Exercised - - - - - - Forfeited (11,390 ) 4.73 - (13,040 ) 5.78 - Balance at December 31, 2011 - $ - $ - 162,965 $ 9.52 $ - Issued - - - - - - Exercised - - - - - - Forfeited - - - (6,384 ) 6.71 - Balance at December 31, 2012 - $ - $ - 156,581 $ 9.63 $ - Exercisable at December 31, 2012 - $ - $ - 156,581 $ 9.63 $ - All options under the Director plan expired in 2011. At December 31, 2012, all options under the Employee Plan were exercisable at a weighted average exercise price of $9.63. The range of exercise prices at December 31, 2012 for the Employee Plans was $7.73 - $11.65. The weighted average remaining contractual term for the Employee Plans was 29 months. The aggregate intrinsic value of all stock options and of exercisable options at December 31, 2012 was $0 for all Plans. 53 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 1 - Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) (l) Reclassification Certain amounts in the 2011 consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the 2012 presentation. (m) Advertising Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. (n) Operating segments ASC 280, Segment Reporting , provides guidance on the reporting and disclosure of information about operating segments. The Company is considered to have three principal business segments in 2012 and 2011, the Commercial/Retail bank, the Mortgage division, and the holding company. The Mortgage division began originating home mortgage loans through third parties and selling these loans to investors in late 2007. The Mortgage Division added a retail mortgage loan production office in July 2010 and another two retail mortgage loan production offices in 2012. Retail mortgage loan officers are also located in five of eight full service bank offices. Financial performance for 2012 and 2011 and selected balance sheet information at December 31, 2012 and 2011 for each segment is shown in Note 16. (o) Retail repurchase agreements Funds are borrowed on an overnight basis through retail repurchase agreements with bank customers. Retail repurchase agreements are collateralized by securities of U.S. governmental agencies or by mortgage backed securities issued by government sponsored entities. The market value of collateral pledged for retail repurchase agreements is monitored by the Company to equal or exceed the balances borrowed. (p) Impact of recently adopted accounting standards In April 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2011-02, A Creditor s Determination of Whether a Restructuring is a Troubled Debt Restructuring . The Update amended the existing guidance for assisting a creditor in determining whether a restructuring is a troubled debt restructuring ( TDR ). The amendments clarify the guidance for a creditor s evaluation of whether it has granted a concession and whether a debtor is experiencing financial difficulties. The Company implemented this guidance in 2011 which resulted in expanded narrative and tabular disclosures surrounding TDRs in the Company s consolidated financial statements, as reflected in Note 3. 54 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 1 - Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-03, Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase Agreements . The Update amends existing guidance to remove from the assessment of effective control, the criterion requiring the transferor to have the ability to repurchase or redeem the financial assets on substantially the agreed terms and the collateral maintenance implementation guidance related to that criterion. The other criteria to assess effective control were not changed. The amendments were effective for the Company on January 1, 2012 and had no effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements. In May 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-04, Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRS . The Update amends existing guidance by clarifying the application of existing fair value measurement and disclosure requirements and by changing particular principles or requirements for measuring fair value or for disclosing information about fair value measurements. The amendments were effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2012. The adoption of this guidance has resulted in expanded narrative and tabular disclosures regarding fair value measurements in the Company s consolidated financial statements, as reflected in Note 14. In June 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-05, Presentation of Comprehensive Income . The amendments eliminate the option to present other comprehensive income as a part of the statement of changes in stockholders equity and require that changes in stockholders equity be presented either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive statements. The Company implemented this guidance in the period ended December 31, 2011; the adoption of these amendments affected the presentation of the Company s consolidated financial statements, but did not change the items that are reported in other comprehensive income. In December 2011, the FASB further amended this topic with ASU No. 2011-12 to defer the effective date of presenting reclassification adjustments from other comprehensive income to net income on the face of the financial statements. In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU No. 2013-02 to address the reporting of amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income. The amendments do not change the current requirements for reporting net income or other comprehensive income in financial statements. However, the amendments do require an entity to provide information about the amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component. In addition, in certain circumstances an entity is required to present, either on the face of the statement where net income is presented or in the notes, significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by the respective line items of net income. The amendments will be effective for the Company on a prospective basis for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2012. Early adoption is permitted. The Company does not expect these amendments to have a material effect on its financial statements. 55 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 1 - Summary of significant accounting policies (continued) In December 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-11, Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities . The Update requires an entity to offset, and present as a single net amount, a recognized eligible asset and a recognized eligible liability when it has an unconditional and legally enforceable right of setoff and intends either to settle the asset and liability on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The ASU requires an entity to disclose information about offsetting and related arrangements to enable users of its financial statements to understand the effect of those arrangements on its financial position. In January 2013, the FASB further amended this topic via ASU No. 2013-01 to clarify that the Update only applies to certain derivatives accounted for in accordance with the Derivatives and Hedging topic of the ASC, including bifurcated embedded derivatives, repurchase agreements and reverse repurchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending transactions that are either offset or subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or similar agreement. The amendments are effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The adoption of this ASU is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements. Several other accounting standards have been issued or proposed by the FASB or other standards-setting bodies during the periods presented or will be effective subsequent to December 31, 2012. None of these new standards had or is expected to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements. 56 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 2 Securities A summary of the amortized cost and estimated fair values of securities available-for-sale and held-to-maturity follows: Gross Gross Estimated Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Fair Cost Gains Losses Value (in thousands) December 31, 2012 Available-for-sale Municipal securities $ 16,938 $ 1,414 $ 5 $ 18,347 FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA mortgage-backed securities 10,127 876 - 11,003 Corporate securities 12,059 264 92 12,231 Unrestricted stock 266 189 - 455 $ 39,390 $ 2,743 $ 97 $ 42,036 Held-to-maturity FNMA and GNMA mortgage-backed securities 211 14 - 225 $ 211 $ 14 $ - $ 225 December 31, 2011 Available-for-sale Municipal securities $ 16,531 $ 1,236 $ - $ 17,767 FNMA, FHLMC, and GNMA mortgage-backed securities 13,489 1,005 - 14,494 Corporate securities 10,179 15 588 9,606 Unrestricted stock 266 75 - 341 $ 40,465 $ 2,331 $ 588 $ 42,208 Held-to-maturity FNMA and GNMA mortgage-backed securities 392 28 - 420 $ 392 $ 28 $ - $ 420 57 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 2 Securities (continued) The scheduled maturities of debt securities available-for-sale and held-to-maturity at December 31, 2012 were as follows: Available-for-Sale Held-to-Maturity Estimated Estimated Amortized Fair Amortized Fair Cost Value Cost Value (in thousands) Due in one year or less $ - $ - $ - $ - Due from one to five years 10,622 10,819 - - Due from five to ten years 5,795 6,297 - - Over ten years 12,580 13,462 - - Mortgage-backed securities 10,127 11,003 211 225 $ 39,124 $ 41,581 $ 211 $ 225 Municipal securities and unrestricted stock were sold during 2012 and 2011 for gains totaling $37,000 and $239,000, respectively. At December 31, 2012, securities with a carrying value of approximately $4,805,000 were pledged to secure retail repurchase agreements and certain deposits. Management evaluates securities for other-than-temporary impairment at least quarterly. Consideration is given to the length of time and the extent to which the fair values have been less than amortized cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the security issuers, and the intent and ability to retain impaired investments for a period to allow recovery in fair value. At December 31, 2012, three corporate debt securities with $2,378,000 in fair value and one municipal security with $598,000 in fair value had total unrealized losses of $92,000 and $5,000, respectively. One corporate debt security issued by a North Carolina Community Bank with assets of $711.7 million and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 7.91% at December 31, 2012 represented $87,000 of the unrealized losses. Values on these securities with unrealized losses fluctuate based on changes in the values of U.S. Treasury bonds with similar characteristics, debt ratings changes of the issuing institutions, financial performance of the related institutions, world events, and demand for the securities. As management has the ability and intent to hold these debt securities until maturity, no declines are deemed to be other-than-temporary. 58 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 2 Securities (continued) Information pertaining to securities with gross unrealized losses at December 31, 2012 and 2011, by category and length of time that individual securities have been in a continuous loss position, follows: Less Than 12 Months 12 Months or Greater Total Number Gross Gross Number Gross of Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized of Fair Unrealized Securities Value Losses Value Losses Securities Value Losses (dollars in thousands) December 31, 2012: Municipal securities 1 $ 598 $ 5 $ - $ - 1 $ 598 $ 5 Corporate securities 3 2,378 92 - - 3 2,378 92 Total 4 $ 2,976 $ 97 $ - $ - 4 $ 2,976 $ 97 December 31, 2011: Corporate securities 6 $ 8,142 $ 588 $ - $ - 6 $ 8,142 $ 588 Total 6 $ 8,142 $ 588 $ - $ - 6 $ 8,142 $ 588 Note 3 - Loans and allowance for loan losses The following is a description of loan categories and related risks factors: Construction development - The construction and development loan portfolio includes loans to construct new homes, multifamily units, retail establishments, and commercial properties as well as development loans that facilitate the final construction of the aforementioned properties. Many of the properties being constructed are pre-sold but some are for speculative purposes with repayment dependent on the sale of completed construction to the final users of the property. This portfolio has experienced the highest losses during the most recent economic downturn and generally has the highest risk of our loan portfolio. Commercial Real Estate - Commercial real estate loans include owner-occupied commercial real estate loans to operating businesses, which are loans for long-term financing of land and buildings, and are repaid by cash flow generated by business operations. This loan portfolio also includes extensions of credit to real estate developers or investors where repayment is dependent on the sale of real estate or income generated from the real estate collateral. Apartment buildings, office and industrial buildings, motels, nursing homes, and retail shopping centers are examples of properties financed by commercial real estate loans. Loans in this portfolio segment are sensitive to declines in real estate values and to the cash flow of commercial borrowers. 59 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 3 - Loans and allowance for loan losses (continued) Home equity lines Home equity lines of credit are revolving, open-end loans secured by 1-4 family residential properties, generally junior liens at a loan to value of less than 90%. These loans are generally for a term of 15 years, require interest payments monthly, and have floating interest rates tied to the prime rate although fixed rates are also offered. Home equity lines can be sensitive to key economic measures that impact consumers such as unemployment, home prices, and the prime interest rate. Residential real estate Residential real estate loans are closed-end loans secured by 1-4 family residential properties, primarily first liens with a small percentage of junior liens. These loans are generally for a term of 5 to 30 years, require interest and principal payments monthly, and are primarily fixed rate. This portfolio can be sensitive to key economic measures that impact consumers such as unemployment and home values. Commercial industrial - The commercial loan portfolio segment includes commercial and industrial loans to commercial customers for use in normal business operations to finance working capital needs, equipment purchases or other expansion projects. Collection risk in this portfolio is driven by the creditworthiness of underlying borrowers, particularly cash flow from customers business operations. Consumer Other - The consumer other loan portfolio segment includes direct consumer installment loans and overdrafts. These loans may be secured by vehicles, stocks, deposits or may be unsecured. Fixed and variable rates are offered. Loans in this portfolio segment are sensitive to unemployment and other key consumer economic measures. Loans at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows: 60 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 2012 2011 ( in thousands) Real Estate Loans: Construction development $ 64,669 $ 51,383 Commercial real estate 215,262 251,057 Home equity lines 66,523 66,172 Residential real estate 48,857 51,499 Total real estate loans 395,311 420,111 Commercial industrial 61,251 60,863 Consumer other 5,170 6,099 Total loans 461,732 487,073 Less: Deferred loan fees (costs) 4 42 Allowance for loan losses 9,944 11,793 $ 451,784 $ 475,238 61 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 3 - Loans and allowance for loan losses (continued) The activity in the allowance for loan losses for 2012 and 2011 is summarized as follows: Construction Commercial Home Equity Residential Commercial Consumer Development Real Estate Lines Real Estate Industrial Other Unallocated Total (in thousands) Allowance for loan losses: 2012 Beginning of year balance $ 2,948 $ 3,690 $ 1,126 $ 994 $ 2,985 $ 46 $ 4 $ 11,793 Provision for loan losses (450 ) 1,592 (198 ) 357 920 106 33 2,360 Charge-offs (159 ) (1,318 ) (324 ) (498 ) (2,142 ) (20 ) - (4,461 ) Recoveries 10 104 5 10 122 1 - 252 Balance at December 31, $ 2,349 $ 4,068 $ 609 $ 863 $ 1,885 $ 133 $ 37 $ 9,944 2011 Beginning of year balance $ 4,478 $ 3,364 $ 818 $ 846 $ 2,746 $ 79 $ 28 $ 12,359 Provision for loan losses 3,440 1,161 698 896 708 (29 ) (24 ) 6,850 Charge-offs (5,137 ) (1,319 ) (405 ) (756 ) (569 ) (6 ) - (8,192 ) Recoveries 167 484 15 8 100 2 - 776 Balance at December 31, $ 2,948 $ 3,690 $ 1,126 $ 994 $ 2,985 $ 46 $ 4 $ 11,793 Balances at December 31, 2012 Allowance for loan losses: Balance at December 31, $ 2,349 $ 4,068 $ 609 $ 863 $ 1,885 $ 133 $ 37 $ 9,944 Ending balance individually evaluated for impairment $ - $ 1,309 $ 187 $ 134 $ 95 $ 50 $ - $ 1,775 Ending balance collectively evaluated for impairment $ 2,349 $ 2,759 $ 422 $ 729 $ 1,790 $ 83 $ 37 $ 8,169 Loans Outstanding: Balance at December 31, $ 64,669 $ 215,258 $ 66,523 $ 48,857 $ 61,251 $ 5,170 $ - $ 461,728 Ending balance individually evaluated for impairment $ 1,942 $ 19,724 $ 778 $ 4,416 $ 1,198 $ 52 $ - $ 28,110 Ending balance collectively evaluated for impairment $ 62,727 $ 195,534 $ 65,745 $ 44,441 $ 60,053 $ 5,118 $ - $ 433,618 Balances at December 31, 2011 Allowance for loan losses: Balance at December 31, $ 2,948 $ 3,690 $ 1,126 $ 994 $ 2,985 $ 46 $ 4 $ 11,793 Ending balance individually evaluated for impairment $ 23 $ 595 $ 556 $ 165 $ 1,398 $ - $ - $ 2,737 Ending balance collectively evaluated for impairment $ 2,925 $ 3,095 $ 570 $ 829 $ 1,587 $ 46 $ 4 $ 9,056 Loans Outstanding: Balance at December 31, $ 51,383 $ 251,015 $ 66,172 $ 51,499 $ 60,863 $ 6,099 $ - $ 487,031 Ending balance individually evaluated for impairment $ 4,606 $ 27,183 $ 1,858 $ 5,978 $ 5,868 $ 10 $ - $ 45,503 Ending balance collectively evaluated for impairment $ 46,777 $ 223,832 $ 64,314 $ 45,521 $ 54,995 $ 6,089 $ - $ 441,528 62 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 3 - Loans and allowance for loan losses (continued) A loan is past due when the borrower has not made a payment by the contractual due date. The following table presents the carrying value of loans that are past due thirty days or more. Loans which are ninety days or more past due are generally on non-accrual status, at which time all accrued interest is removed from interest income, as shown in the following table: Loans Past Number of Days Past Due Due 90 Days 90 Days Total Total or More 30-59 Days 60-89 Days or More Past Due Current Loans Accruing (in thousands) At December 31, 2012 Real Estate Loans: Construction development $ - $ - $ 1,778 $ 1,778 $ 62,891 $ 64,669 $ - Commercial real estate - - 7,908 7,908 207,350 215,258 - Home equity lines 27 - 654 681 65,842 66,523 - Residential real estate 665 - 1,584 2,249 46,608 48,857 33 Total real estate 692 - 11,924 12,616 382,691 395,307 33 Commercial industrial 67 - 1,126 1,193 60,058 61,251 - Consumer other 1 - 50 51 5,119 5,170 - Total loans $ 760 $ - $ 13,100 $ 13,860 $ 447,868 $ 461,728 $ 33 At December 31, 2011 Real Estate Loans: Construction development $ - $ - $ 4,265 $ 4,265 $ 47,118 $ 51,383 $ - Commercial real estate - - 12,513 12,513 238,502 251,015 - Home equity lines 300 - 791 1,091 65,081 66,172 - Residential real estate 369 3 3,770 4,142 47,357 51,499 - Total real estate 669 3 21,339 22,011 398,058 420,069 - Commercial industrial - - 1,572 1,572 59,291 60,863 - Consumer other - - 4 4 6,095 6,099 - Total loans $ 669 $ 3 $ 22,915 $ 23,587 $ 463,444 $ 487,031 $ - Loans are determined to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that all amounts will not be collected when due according to the contractual terms of the original loan agreement. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the total recorded investment in impaired loans amounted to approximately $28,110,000 and $45,503,000, respectively. Of these impaired loans, $13,067,000 and $22,915,000 were on non-accrual at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 63 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 3 - Loans and allowance for loan losses (continued) The recorded investment and related information for impaired loans is summarized as follows: Impaired Loans At end of year For Year Ended Unpaid Related Average Interest Recorded Principal Loan Loss Recorded Income Investment Balance Allowance Investment Recognized (in thousands) December 31, 2012 With no related allowance recorded Real Estate Loans: Construction development $ 1,942 $ 2,074 $ - $ 2,114 $ 53 Commercial real estate 16,547 18,009 - 18,335 785 Home equity lines 414 608 - 608 17 Residential real estate 3,800 4,111 - 4,151 155 Total real estate 22,703 24,802 - 25,208 1,010 Commercial industrial 1,103 1,697 - 2,170 42 Consumer other 2 2 - 4 - Total loans 23,808 26,501 - 27,382 1,052 With an allowance recorded Real Estate Loans: Construction development - - - - - Commercial real estate 3,177 3,180 1,309 3,181 177 Home equity lines 364 395 187 395 16 Residential real estate 616 631 134 656 38 Total real estate 4,157 4,206 1,630 4,232 231 Commercial industrial 95 104 95 118 7 Consumer other 50 50 50 50 3 Total loans 4,302 4,360 1,775 4,400 241 Total impaired loans $ 28,110 $ 30,861 $ 1,775 $ 31,782 $ 1,293 December 31, 2011 With no related allowance recorded Real Estate Loans: Construction development $ 4,479 $ 5,473 $ - $ 5,352 $ 81 Commercial real estate 22,967 23,551 - 23,297 846 Home equity lines 533 555 - 542 20 Residential real estate 4,929 5,448 - 5,727 173 Total real estate 32,908 35,027 - 34,918 1,120 Commercial industrial 2,186 2,200 - 2,273 77 Consumer other 10 11 - 13 1 Total loans 35,104 37,238 - 37,204 1,198 With an allowance recorded Real Estate Loans: Construction development 127 127 23 222 2 Commercial real estate 4,216 4,226 595 4,339 246 Home equity lines 1,325 1,336 556 1,319 77 Residential real estate 1,049 1,057 165 1,070 61 Total real estate 6,717 6,746 1,339 6,950 386 Commercial industrial 3,682 3,691 1,398 3,789 191 Consumer other - - - - - Total loans 10,399 10,437 2,737 10,739 577 Total impaired loans $ 45,503 $ 47,675 $ 2,737 $ 47,943 $ 1,775 64 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 3 - Loans and allowance for loan losses (continued) Loans are graded according to an internal loan rating classification system when originated. Loan grades are periodically re-evaluated during servicing, internal loan reviews, and external loan reviews. The general categories of the internal loan rating classification are: Pass - Acceptable loans Special Mention - Loans with potential identified weaknesses in administration or servicing. Criticized - Adversely classified loans with identified weaknesses, and potential or identified losses of principal and/or interest due. The following is a breakdown of loans by the general categories of the internal rating system: Outstanding Loans at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 Construction Commercial Home Equity Development Real Estate Lines of Credit 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 (in thousands) Pass $ 60,928 $ 36,968 $ 182,314 $ 210,356 $ 64,042 $ 64,561 Special Mention - 1,083 8,641 9,099 588 214 Criticized 3,741 13,332 24,303 31,560 1,893 1,397 TOTAL $ 64,669 $ 51,383 $ 215,258 $ 251,015 $ 66,523 $ 66,172 Residential Commercial Consumer Real Estate Industrial Other 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 (in thousands) Pass $ 43,042 $ 41,664 $ 58,454 $ 54,947 $ 5,101 $ 6,064 Special Mention 391 802 400 646 7 25 Criticized 5,424 9,033 2,397 5,270 62 10 TOTAL $ 48,857 $ 51,499 $ 61,251 $ 60,863 $ 5,170 $ 6,099 Loans that are past due 90 days or more or where there is serious doubt as to collectability are placed on non-accrual status. Non-accrual loans are not returned to accrual status unless principal and interest are current and borrowers have demonstrated the ability to make contractual payments. Accrued interest is reversed through a charge to income when loans are placed on non-accrual and future payments on non-accrual loans are generally applied to principal. 65 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 3 - Loans and allowance for loan losses (continued) The following is a summary of non-accrual loans at December 31, 2012 and 2011: December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 (in thousands) Real Estate Loans: Construction development $ 1,778 $ 4,265 Commercial real estate 7,908 12,513 Home equity lines 654 791 Residential real estate 1,551 3,770 Total real estate 11,891 21,339 Commercial industrial 1,126 1,572 Consumer other 50 4 Total loans $ 13,067 $ 22,915 During 2012 and 2011, the Company restructured certain loans to improve the likelihood that the loans would be repaid in full under the modified terms in accordance with reasonable repayment schedules. Management evaluates each of these loans in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles to determine whether they should be reported as troubled debt restructurings. The Company adopted the amendments in Accounting Standards Update No. 2011-02 during 2011 and reassessed all restructurings that occurred on or after January 1, 2011 for identification as troubled debt restructurings. The Company did not identify as troubled debt restructurings any receivables for which the allowance for credit losses had previously been measured under a general allowance for credit losses methodology. The Company offers a variety of modifications to borrowers. The modification categories offered can generally be described in the following categories: Rate Modification - A modification in which the interest rate is changed. Term Modification - A modification in which the maturity date, timing of payments, or frequency of payments is changed. Interest Only Modification A modification in which the loan is converted to interest only payments for a period of time. Payment Modification A modification in which the dollar amount of the payment is changed, other than an interest only modification described above. Combination Modification Any other type of modification, including the use of multiple categories above. Available commitments for troubled debt restructurings outstanding as of December 31, 2012 totaled $420,000. 66 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 3 - Loans and allowance for loan losses (continued) The following tables present troubled debt restructurings as of December 31, 2012 and 2011: Troubled Debt Restructurings December 31, 2012 Non-Accrual Total Accrual Status Status Modifications # Amount # Amount # Amount ($ in thousands) Real Estate Loans: Construction development 1 $ 165 7 $ 1,606 8 $ 1,771 Commercial real estate 14 11,235 8 3,936 22 15,171 Home equity lines 0 - 1 150 1 150 Residential real estate 15 2,350 3 685 18 3,035 Total real estate 30 13,750 19 6,377 49 20,127 Commercial industrial 2 70 5 1,066 7 1,136 Consumer other 1 2 0 - 1 2 Total loans 33 $ 13,822 24 $ 7,443 57 $ 21,265 December 31, 2011 Non-Accrual Total Accrual Status Status Modifications # Amount # Amount # Amount ($ in thousands) Real Estate Loans: Construction development 2 $ 349 6 $ 1,789 8 $ 2,138 Commercial real estate 11 13,912 13 5,758 24 19,670 Home equity lines 0 - 1 150 1 150 Residential real estate 10 1,949 8 870 18 2,819 Total real estate 23 16,210 28 8,567 51 24,777 Commercial industrial 10 2,286 2 493 12 2,779 Consumer other 1 6 0 - 1 6 Total loans 34 $ 18,502 30 $ 9,060 64 $ 27,562 The Bank s policy is that loans placed on non-accrual will typically remain on non-accrual status until all principal and interest payments are brought current and the prospect for future payment in accordance with the loan agreement appears relatively certain. The Bank s policy generally refers to six months of payment performance as sufficient to warrant a return to accrual status. Troubled debt restructurings are classified as impaired loans when modified, and fair value calculations are performed to determine the specific allowances for loan losses related to these loans. Troubled debt restructurings can be removed from such status and returned to non-impaired status in years subsequent to restructure if the interest rate charged at restructure was greater than or equal to the rate charged for a new extension of credit with comparable risk and if the loan is performing and there is no available information to indicated that performance will not continue. 67 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 3 - Loans and allowance for loan losses (continued) The following tables present newly restructured loans that occurred during 2012 and 2011: New Trouble Debt Restructurings Year Ended December 31, 2012 Rate Term Payment Combination Total Modifications Modifications Modifications Modifications Modifications # Amount # Amount # Amount # Amount # Amount ($ in thousands) Pre-Modification Outstanding Recorded Investment: Real Estate Loans: Construction development 1 $ 32 0 $ - 3 $ - 0 $ - 4 $ 32 Commercial real estate 0 - 1 81 3 1,005 0 - 4 1,086 Residential real estate 0 - 0 - 0 - 2 686 2 686 Total real estate 1 32 1 81 6 1,005 2 686 10 1,804 Commercial industrial 0 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 0 - Total loans 1 $ 32 1 $ 81 6 $ 1,005 2 $ 686 10 $ 1,804 Post-Modification Outstanding Recorded Investment: Real Estate Loans: Construction development 1 $ 14 0 $ - 3 $ 755 0 $ - 4 $ 769 Commercial real estate 0 - 1 72 3 784 0 - 4 856 Residential real estate 0 - 0 - 0 - 2 673 2 673 Total real estate 1 14 1 72 6 1,539 2 673 10 2,298 Commercial industrial 0 - 0 - 0 - 0 - 0 - Total loans 1 $ 14 1 $ 72 6 $ 1,539 2 $ 673 10 $ 2,298 Year Ended December 31, 2011 Pre-Modification Outstanding Recorded Investment: Real Estate Loans: Construction development 0 $ - 0 $ - 8 $ 2,011 0 $ - 8 $ 2,011 Commercial real estate 0 - 0 - 7 8,180 14 11,233 21 19,413 Home equity lines 0 - 0 - 1 150 0 - 1 150 Residential real estate 0 - 0 - 5 471 11 2,245 16 2,716 Total real estate 0 - 0 - 21 10,812 25 13,478 46 24,290 Commercial industrial 0 - 1 442 4 1,968 2 491 7 2,901 Consumer other 0 - 0 - 1 10 0 - 1 10 Total loans 0 $ - 1 $ 442 26 $ 12,790 27 $ 13,969 54 $ 27,201 Post-Modification Outstanding Recorded Investment: Real Estate Loans: Construction development 0 $ - 0 $ - 8 $ 2,138 0 $ - 8 $ 2,138 Commercial real estate 0 - 0 - 7 7,811 14 11,024 21 18,835 Home equity lines 0 - 0 - 1 150 0 - 1 150 Residential real estate 0 - 0 - 5 464 11 2,174 16 2,638 Total real estate 0 - 0 - 21 10,563 25 13,198 46 23,761 Commercial industrial 0 - 1 433 4 1,718 2 479 7 2,630 Consumer other 0 - 0 - 1 6 0 - 1 6 Total loans 0 $ - 1 $ 433 26 $ 12,287 27 $ 13,677 54 $ 26,397 68 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 3 - Loans and allowance for loan losses (continued) The following table represent financing receivables modified as troubled debt restructurings and with a payment default occurring within 12 months of the restructure date, during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011: TDRs with a payment default occurring within 12 months of restructure During the year ended December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 # Amount # Amount ($ in thousands) Real Estate Loans: Construction development 1 $ 14 4 $ 4,090 Commercial real estate 6 4,979 14 3,370 Residential real estate 0 - 0 - Total real estate 7 4,993 18 7,460 Commercial industrial 2 494 0 - Total loans 9 $ 5,487 18 $ 7,460 Troubled debt restructuring defaults can result in a higher allowance for loan losses and a corresponding higher provision for loan losses because defaults generally negatively impact the timing of and expected collections from these impaired loans. Impaired loans, which include troubled debt restructurings, are evaluated for specific additions to the allowance for loan losses by subtracting the recorded investment in these impaired loans from their fair values. Fair value is generally determined by the present value of future cash flows, collateral value, or liquidation value. Defaults generally reduce the present value of the future cash flows and can negatively impact the collateral values if declining real estate values are impacting the sale of collateral. The Company made loans in the ordinary course of business to certain directors and executive officers of the Company and to their affiliates and associates. The total amount of such loans outstanding was $8,878,000 and $12,677,000 at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. During 2012, new loans were $2,080,000 and repayments were $606,000, exclusive of retired directors. These loans were made on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other borrowers. 69 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 4 - Premises and equipment Premises and equipment at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows: 2012 2011 (in thousands) Land $ 4,054 $ 3,658 Building and improvements 6,160 6,014 Leasehold improvements 7,678 7,405 Furniture and equipment 5,401 5,154 Land improvements 1,003 1,004 24,296 23,235 Less accumulated depreciation (6,564 ) (5,793 ) Premises and equipment, net $ 17,732 $ 17,442 No interest was capitalized in 2012 or 2011. Depreciation expense was $881,000 in 2012 and $908,000 in 2011. Note 5 - Deposits The aggregate amount of certificates of deposit with a minimum denomination of $100,000 was $102,297,000 and $121,025,000 at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company has accepted deposits during the ordinary course of business from certain directors and executive officers of the Company and from their affiliates and associates. The total amount of these deposits outstanding was $3,713,000 and $3,670,000 at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. At December 31, 2012, the scheduled maturities of time deposits were as follows: (in thousands) 2013 $ 86,294 2014 39,643 2015 26,257 2016 16,092 2017 5,418 Thereafter 449 $ 174,153 The Company periodically utilizes broker deposits to lower its funding costs or to meet certain asset/liability objectives. Broker deposits totaled $18,800,000 and $28,998,000 at December, 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 70 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 6 - Advances from Federal Home Loan Bank of Atlanta The Company had the following advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank outstanding at December 31, 2012 and 2011: 2012 2011 (in thousands) Variable rate advance at 0.36% $ 13,000 $ - Amortizing fixed rate advances at 1.00% 885 928 Amortizing fixed rate advance at 1.25% 1,256 1,284 Amortizing fixed rate advance at 0.50% 443 452 Amortizing fixed rate advance at 0.25% 307 315 Amortizing fixed rate advance at 0.00% 91 96 $ 15,982 $ 3,075 These advances are secured by the Company s FHLB stock and a blanket floating lien on the Company s one-to-four family residential and commercial real estate loan portfolios. Outstanding loan balances of approximately $119.8 million were pledged to the Federal Home Loan Bank at December 31, 2012. The contractual maturities of these advances are as follows: (in thousands) 2013 13,097 2014 100 2015 104 2016 108 2017 112 Thereafter 2,461 $ 15,982 Credit availability for additional advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank was $41,118,000 at December 31, 2012. The Company had a discount borrowing line of $117,667,000 at December 31, 2012 from the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond which is secured by land development, construction, commercial, and home equity loans. No borrowings have been conducted under the Federal Reserve line. The Federal Reserve line changes each month as pledged loan amounts and collateral values fluctuate. Note 7 - Subordinated debentures In December 2004, the Company issued $10,310,000 of unsecured junior subordinated debentures which accrue and pay interest quarterly at three month LIBOR plus 2% per annum. These debentures were issued to Carolina Capital Trust ( Carolina Trust ), a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company which is not consolidated in these consolidated financial statements 71 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 7 - Subordinated debentures (continued) pursuant to accounting standards incorporated within ASC 810, Consolidation . Carolina Trust acquired these debentures using the proceeds of its offerings of common securities to the Company and $10 million of Trust Preferred Securities to outside investors. The Trust Preferred Securities qualify as Tier 1 capital under current Federal Reserve Board guidelines, but a recent proposal would phase out Tier 1 capital treatment over ten years. The Company has entered into contractual arrangements which, in the aggregate, constitute a full, irrevocable and unconditional guarantee on a subordinated basis by the Company of the obligations of Carolina Trust under the Trust Preferred Securities. The Trust Preferred Securities are redeemable upon maturity of the debentures on January 7, 2035, or upon earlier redemption as provided in the indenture. The Company has the right to redeem the debentures purchased by Carolina Trust in whole or in part, on or after January 7, 2010. In August and September of 2008, Carolina Bank issued $9,300,000 of unsecured junior subordinated notes to outside investors which accrue and pay interest quarterly at three month LIBOR plus 4% per annum. The notes, net of unamortized expenses associated with the offering, equal to $9,253,000 at December 31, 2012 and qualify as Tier 2 capital for the Bank. The notes are redeemable upon maturity on September 30, 2018, or earlier at the Bank s option, in whole or part subject to regulatory approval, beginning September 30, 2013. The expenses of the offering of $373,000 were capitalized at issuance and are being amortized over sixty months. The notes are subordinate to the rights of payment to depositors, bankers acceptances, letters of creditors and general creditors. Note 8 - Income taxes The Company does not have an accrual for uncertain tax positions as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, as deductions taken and benefits accrued are generally widely understood administrative practices and procedures. Any potential income tax adjustments would likely result in timing differences which would transfer a tax cost or benefit from one year to another year. The Company s income taxes were audited for 2008 and 2009, and adjustments were primarily timing differences. With limited exceptions, income tax returns prior to 2009 are not subject to examination by the taxing authorities. 72 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 8 - Income taxes (continued) The provision for income tax expense (benefit) consisted of the following for the years ended December 31: 2012 2011 (in thousands) Current Federal $ 2,956 $ 1,184 State 735 303 3,691 1,487 Deferred Federal 65 (857 ) State (24 ) (73 ) 41 (930 ) $ 3,732 $ 557 A reconciliation of reported income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 to the amount of tax expense computed by multiplying income before taxes by the statutory federal income tax rate of 34% follows: 2012 2011 (in thousands) Tax provision at statutory rate $ 3,820 $ 1,004 Increase (decrease) in income taxes resulting from State income taxes net of federal benefit 469 135 Increase in cash value of life insurance (129 ) (130 ) Non taxable securities income reduced by nondeductible interest expense (131 ) (177 ) Tax credits (321 ) (199 ) Non-deductible compensation in excess of TARP limitations 140 - Other (116 ) (76 ) $ 3,732 $ 557 73 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 8 - Income taxes (continued) The primary components of deferred income taxes which are included in other assets are as follows: 2012 2011 (in thousands) Deferred tax assets Allowance for loan losses $ 3,828 $ 4,540 Deferred compensation expense 1,758 1,297 Impaired assets 1,600 1,695 Provision for warranty claims 625 321 Other (18 ) (1 ) Gross deferred tax assets 7,793 7,852 Deferred tax liabilities Depreciable basis of premises and equipment 741 767 Deferred loan costs 307 317 Prepaid assets 80 62 Unrealized gain on securities 900 593 Gross deferred tax liabilities 2,028 1,739 Net deferred tax assets $ 5,765 $ 6,113 Note 9 Preferred stock and common stock warrants In December 2008, the shareholders of the Company approved an amendment to the Articles of Incorporation authorizing the issuance of up to 1,000,000 shares of preferred stock, no par value. In January 2009, the Company issued 16,000 shares of preferred stock to the U.S. Treasury and received $16 million under the Capital Purchase Program. The Company granted a warrant to purchase 357,675 shares of common stock at a price of $6.71 per share to the U.S. Treasury as part of the preferred stock transaction. In accordance with applicable accounting principles, the preferred stock and common stock warrant were valued independently and their relative fair market values were allocated to the $16 million received. Under the relative value method, $14,159,000 was allocated to the preferred stock and $1,841,000 to the common stock warrant. The discount of $1,841,000 on the preferred stock is accreted over five years using the effective yield method, thereby increasing preferred stock dividends. The accretion of discount was $396,000 and $366,000 in 2012 and 2011, respectively. Dividends at 5% per annum are payable quarterly for the first five years; the dividend increases to 9% per annum after the fifth year if not called by the Company. 74 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 10 - Regulatory matters Federal and state banking regulations place certain restrictions on dividends paid and loans or advances made by the Bank to the Holding Company. The total amount of dividends, which may be paid at any date, is generally limited to the retained earnings of the Bank, and loans or advances are limited to 10 percent of the Bank s common stock and surplus on a secured basis. In addition, dividends paid by the Bank to the Holding Company would be prohibited if the effect would cause the Bank s capital to be reduced below applicable minimum regulatory capital requirements. The Holding Company agreed in 2011 not to declare or pay any dividend, common or preferred, or make any payments on trust preferred securities without prior written approval from the Federal Reserve. The Bank also agreed in 2011 not to pay any cash dividends or bonuses without the prior written consent of the Supervisory authorities. The requirements of prior written approvals to pay dividends or make trust preferred payments were lifted in late 2012 and early 2013. The Holding Company and the Bank are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possible additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Holding Company and the Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the Company s and the Bank s assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The Company s and the Bank s capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators as to components, risk weighting, and other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Company and the Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in the table below) of total and Tier 1 capital (as defined in the regulations) to risk-weighted assets (as defined), and of Tier 1 capital to average assets (as defined). The Bank has an understanding with the FDIC to use its best efforts to maintain its ratio of Tier 1 capital to average assets above 8% as long as the ratio of classified assets to capital is above 50%. At December 31, 2012, management believes that the Company and the Bank met all capital adequacy requirements. As of December 31, 2012, the most recent notification from the FDIC categorized the Bank as well capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action. To be categorized as well capitalized the Bank must maintain minimum total risk-based, Tier 1 risk-based, and Tier 1 leverage ratios as set forth in the table. 75 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 10 - Regulatory matters (continued) The Company s and the Bank s actual capital amounts and ratios as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 are presented in the table that follows To Be Well Capitalized Under For Capital Prompt Corrective Actual Adequacy Purposes Action Provisions Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio ($ in thousands) December 31, 2012: Total Capital (To risk weighted assets) Consolidated $ 78,395 14.02 % $ 44,742 8 % n/a n/a Carolina Bank 79,291 14.18 % 44,741 8 % $ 55,927 10 % Tier 1 Capital (To risk weighted assets) Consolidated 62,115 11.11 % 22,371 4 % n/a n/a Carolina Bank 63,011 11.27 % 22,371 4 % 33,556 6 % Tier 1 Capital (To average assets) Consolidated 62,115 9.09 % 27,323 4 % n/a n/a Carolina Bank 63,011 9.23 % 27,309 4 % 34,137 5 % December 31, 2011: Total Capital (To risk weighted assets) Consolidated $ 69,982 12.53 % $ 44,668 8 % n/a n/a Carolina Bank 69,810 12.50 % 44,667 8 % $ 55,834 10 % Tier 1 Capital (To risk weighted assets) Consolidated 53,764 9.63 % 22,334 4 % n/a n/a Carolina Bank 53,592 9.60 % 22,333 4 % 33,500 6 % Tier 1 Capital (To average assets) Consolidated 53,764 8.04 % 26,752 4 % n/a n/a Carolina Bank 53,592 8.02 % 26,735 4 % 33,419 5 % 76 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 11 Commitments and Contingencies In the normal course of business, the Company is party to a number of lawsuits, none of which management believes could have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial statements. Operating leases The Company leases land for its main office, three loan production offices, and two branch facilities under operating leases. Total future minimum lease payments, excluding renewal options, at December 31, 2012, under the leases are as follows: ( in thousands) 2013 $ 470 2014 454 2015 460 2016 225 2017 238 Thereafter 2,914 $ 4,761 Total lease expense was approximately $462,000 in 2012 and $410,000 in 2011. Loans In the normal course of business there are outstanding commitments for the extension of credit which are not reflected in the financial statements. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, pre-approved but unused lines of credit for loans totaled approximately $118,608,000 and $133,103,000. In addition, the Company had $1,904,000 and $1,862,000 in performance standby letters of credit at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These commitments represent no more than the normal lending risk that the Bank commits to its borrowers. If these commitments are drawn, the Company will obtain collateral if it is deemed necessary based on management s credit evaluation of the counterparty. Management believes that these commitments can be funded through normal operations. Note 12 Derivatives and financial instruments A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash flows and value by reference to an underlying instrument, index or referenced interest rate. These instruments are designed to hedge exposures to interest rate risk or for speculative purposes. Accounting guidance requires an entity to recognize derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the balance sheet and to measure those instruments at fair value. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are reported in current earnings or other comprehensive income depending on the purpose for which the derivative is held and whether the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting. 77 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 12 Derivatives and financial instruments (continued) The Mortgage Division of the Company began hedging a portion of its governmental mortgage loans, primarily FHA and VA loans, in October 2010 by selling mortgage backed securities on a forward basis. The forward sale mortgage backed securities are later purchased or closed when mandatory loan sales are consummated for the related mortgages that are originated. The value of the estimated loan commitments and open hedges are marked to market through the income statement. The table below provides the carrying values of derivative instruments at December 31, 2012 and 2011: Carrying Value Carrying Value Gain (Loss) Notional Amount Derivatives designated as of Assets of Liabilities in Income of Derivative hedging instruments: (in thousands) At December 31, 2012: Mortgage loan rate lock commitments $ 56 $ - $ 56 $ - Mortgage-backed securities forward sales $ - $ 16 $ (16 ) $ 5,250 At December 31, 2011: Mortgage loan rate lock commitments $ 47 $ - $ 47 $ - Mortgage-backed securities forward sales $ - $ 60 $ (60 ) $ 4,750 Prior to October 2010, the Company sold residential mortgage loans only on a best efforts basis whereby optional commitments to sell mortgage loans were consummated at approximately the same time that optional commitments were given to borrowers to originate the loans. Residential mortgage loans held for sale are still primarily sold on a best efforts basis. The below presents the aggregate fair value and aggregate unpaid principal of loans held for sale at December 31, 2012 and 2011 : December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 Aggregate Fair Aggregate Fair Value Less Value Less Aggregate Aggregate Aggregate Aggregate Aggregate Unpaid Unpaid Aggregate Unpaid Unpaid Fair Value Principal Principal Fair Value Principal Principal (in thousands) Loans held for sale, at fair value $ 131,762 $ 130,539 $ 1,223 $ 91,955 $ 91,254 $ 701 78 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 12 Derivatives and financial instruments (continued) Interest income on loans held for sale is recognized based on contractual rates and is reflected in interest income on loans in the consolidated statements of income. The following table details net gains resulting from changes in fair value of these loans which were recorded in mortgage banking income in the consolidated statements of income during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These changes in fair value are mostly offset by economic hedging activities and also fluctuate based on the change in the aggregate loan principal outstanding. An immaterial portion of these amounts was attributable to changes in instrument-specific credit risk. Loans Held for Sale, At Fair Value Years Ended December 31, 2012 2011 (in thousands) Net gains resulting from changes in fair value $ 522 $ 281 Note 13 - Employee benefit plans All employees of the Company who meet certain eligibility requirements can elect to participate in the Bank s 401(k) plan. Participants may make voluntary contributions resulting in salary deferrals in accordance with Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code and the plan documents. The Company makes a 100% matching contribution up to a maximum of six percent of compensation, which is vested immediately. The Company s matching expense was $542,000 in 2012 and $426,000 in 2011. The Company has a nonqualified deferred compensation plan under which directors may elect to defer their directors fees. Participating directors receive an additional matching contribution for monthly fees and the amounts deferred are invested solely in Company stock that is held in a rabbi trust. The matching contribution was 25% during 2012 and 5% during 2011. The Company stock held by the trust and the related deferred compensation liability are recorded at an amount equal to the original compensation deferred. Changes in the fair value of the stock are not recognized in the Company s financial statements. At December 31, 2012, deferred directors fees of $1,050,000 had been used to purchase 203,498 shares of the Company s stock held by the trust after distribution of shares to retiring directors. Deferred directors fees of $35,000 were also remitted to the trust before December 31, 2012 to purchase stock in 2013. In addition, the Company has a supplemental executive retirement plan for certain officers. The plan was expanded in 2008 to include certain new officers and directors. The future benefits of the plan are funded primarily by life insurance policies on certain employees with the Company designated as the beneficiary. Expenses were $870,000 in 2012 and $558,000 in 2011 related to this plan. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, other liabilities include $3,515,000 and $2,645,000, respectively, for this supplemental retirement plan. The cash surrender value of the related insurance policies has been included in other assets. 79 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 14 - Fair value of financial statements The Company has adopted the accounting standards within FASB Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 820 Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , which provides a framework for measuring fair value under GAAP and enhances disclosures about fair value measurements. Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The Company utilizes fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain assets and to determine fair value disclosures. The Company has not elected the fair value option to value liabilities. Securities available-for-sale and loans held for sale are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Additionally, from time to time, the Company may be required to record at fair value other assets on a nonrecurring basis, such as impaired loans held for investment and certain other assets. These nonrecurring fair value adjustments typically involve application of lower of cost or market accounting or write-downs of individual assets. When measuring fair value, valuation techniques should be appropriate in the circumstances and consistently applied. A hierarchy is used to prioritize valuation inputs into the following three levels to determine fair value: Level 1 quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 observable inputs other than the quoted prices included in Level 1. Level 3 unobservable inputs. Fair Value on a Recurring Basis. The Company measures certain assets at fair value on a recurring basis and the following is a general description of the methods used to value such assets. Investment Securities Available-for-Sale Investment securities available-for-sale are recorded at fair value. Fair value measurement is based upon quoted prices, if available. If quoted prices are not available, fair values are measured using independent pricing models or other model-based valuation techniques such as the present value of future cash flows, adjusted for the security s credit rating, prepayment assumptions and other factors such as credit loss assumptions. Level 1 securities include those traded on an active exchange, such as the New York Stock Exchange, or are traded by brokers and dealers in active over-the-counter markets. U.S. Treasury securities, actively traded corporate bonds and stocks, and money market and mutual funds are Level 1 securities. Level 2 securities include mortgage-backed securities issued by government sponsored entities, municipal bonds and certain corporate debt securities. Securities classified as Level 3 include asset-backed securities in less liquid markets. Loans Held for Sale The Company opted to account for loans held for sale at fair value which is based on what secondary markets are currently offering for portfolios with similar characteristics. As such, the Company classifies loans subjected to recurring fair value adjustments as Level 2 valuation. 80 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 14 - Fair value of financial statements (continued) Interest Rate Lock Commitments The Mortgage Division of the Company hedges some of its residential mortgage loans held for sale by selling mortgage backed securities on a forward basis. The forward sale mortgage backed securities are later purchased or closed when mandatory loan sales are consummated for the related mortgages that are originated. The value of the estimated loan commitments and open hedges are marked to market through the income statement. The significant unobservable input used in the Level 3 fair value measurement of the Company s Interest Rate Lock Commitments (IRLCs) on hedged loans held for sale is the closing ratio, which represents the percentage of loans currently in a lock position which management estimates will ultimately close. Generally, the fair value of an IRLC is positive (negative) if the prevailing interest rate is lower (higher) than the IRLC rate. Therefore, an increase in the closing ratio (i.e., higher percentage of loans are estimated to close) will result in the fair value of the IRLC to increase if in a gain position, or decrease if in a loss position. The closing ratio is largely dependent on the loan processing stage that a loan is currently in and the change in prevailing interest rates from the time of the rate lock. The closing ratio is computed by management using historical data. The fair value of interest rate lock commitments is based on servicing rate premium, origination income net of origination costs, fall out rates and changes in loan pricing between the commitment date and period end, typically month end. The Company classifies interest rate lock commitments as Level 3. Gain on interest rate lock commitments for the period is included in mortgage banking income of non-interest income on the Consolidated Statements of Income. There have been no changes in valuation techniques for years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. Interest Rate Lock Commitments Level 3 Fair Value Fair Value (in thousands) Balance, December 31, 2011 and 2010 $ 47 $ 138 Gains (losses) included in other income 9 (91 ) Transfers in and out - - Balance, December 31, 2012 and 2011 $ 56 $ 47 81 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 14 - Fair value of financial statements (continued) Assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2012 and 2011 are summarized below. Assets Measured at Fair Value Measured Using Description Fair Value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (in thousands) At December 31, 2012: Securities available-for-sale: Municipal securities $ 18,347 $ - $ 18,347 $ - Mortgage-backed securities 11,003 - 11,003 - Corporate securities 12,231 6,891 5,340 - Unrestricted stock 455 455 - - Total available-for-sale securities 42,036 7,346 34,690 - Loans held for sale 131,762 - 131,762 - Interest rate lock commitments 56 - - 56 Total $ 173,854 $ 7,346 $ 166,452 $ 56 At December 31, 2011: Securities available-for-sale: Municipal securities $ 17,767 $ - $ 17,767 $ - Mortgage-backed securities 14,494 - 14,494 - Corporate securities 9,606 - 9,606 - Unrestricted stock 341 341 - - Total available-for-sale securities 42,208 341 41,867 - Loans held for sale 91,955 - 91,955 - Interest rate lock commitments 47 - - 47 Total $ 134,210 $ 341 $ 133,822 $ 47 Fair Value on a Non-recurring Basis. The Company measures certain assets at fair value on a non-recurring basis and the following is a general description of the methods used to value such assets. 82 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 14 - Fair value of financial statements (continued) Impaired Loans The Company does not record loans at fair value on a recurring basis. However, from time to time, a loan is considered impaired and an allowance for loan losses is established. Loans for which it is probable that payment of interest and principal will not be made in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan agreement are considered impaired. Impaired loans are recorded at fair value less estimated selling costs. Once a loan is identified as individually impaired, the Company measures impairment. Fair values of impaired loans are generally estimated using one of several methods, including collateral value, liquidation value, discounted cash flows and, in rare cases, the market value of the note. Those impaired loans not requiring an allowance represent loans for which the net present value of the expected cash flows or fair value of the collateral less costs to sell exceed the recorded investments in such loans. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, a majority of the total impaired loans were evaluated based on the fair value of the collateral. When the fair value of the collateral is based on an executed sales contract with an independent third party, the Company records the impaired loans as nonrecurring Level 1. If the collateral is based on another observable market price or a current appraised value, the Company records the impaired loans as nonrecurring Level 2. When an appraised value is not available or the Company determines the fair value of the collateral is further impaired below the appraised value and there is no observable market price, the Company records the impaired loan as nonrecurring Level 3. Impaired loans can also be evaluated for impairment using the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate. The measurement of impaired loans using future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate rather than the market rate of interest is not a fair value measurement and is therefore excluded from fair value disclosure requirements. Impaired loans are reviewed and evaluated on at least a quarterly basis for additional impairment and adjusted accordingly. Other Real Estate Owned and Repossessed Assets Properties acquired through, or in lieu of, loan foreclosure are held for sale and are initially recorded at fair value less costs to sell at the date of foreclosure. Subsequent to foreclosure, valuations are periodically performed by management and the assets are carried at the lower of carrying value or the new fair value less estimated selling costs. Fair value is generally based upon current appraisals, comparable sales, and other estimates of value obtained principally from independent sources, adjusted for selling costs. When the fair value of the collateral is based on an observable market price or a current appraised value, the Company records the asset as nonrecurring Level 2. However, the Company also considers other factors or recent developments which could result in adjustments to the collateral value estimates indicated in the appraisals such as changes in absorption rates or market conditions from the time of valuation. In situations where an appraisal less estimated selling costs is used to determine fair value, management adjustments are significant to the fair value measurements, or other means are used to estimate fair value in the absence of an appraisal, the Company records the impaired loan as nonrecurring Level 3 within the valuation hierarchy. Securities Held to Maturity The fair values of securities held to maturity are recorded on a non-recurring basis when an impairment in value that is deemed to be other than temporary occurs. Fair value measurement is based upon quoted prices, if available. If quoted prices are not available, fair values are measured using independent pricing models or other model-based valuation techniques such as the present value of future cash flows, adjusted for the security s credit rating, prepayment assumptions and other factors such as credit loss assumptions. At December 31, 2012, there were no fair value adjustments related to $211,000 of securities held to maturity. 83 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 14 - Fair value of financial statements (continued) Assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis at December 31, 2012 and 2011 are summarized below: Assets Measured at Fair Value Measured Using Description Fair Value Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (in thousands) At December 31, 2012: Impaired loans $ 26,335 $ - $ - $ 26,335 Other real estate owned 5,940 - - 5,940 At December 31, 2011: Impaired loans $ 42,766 $ - $ - $ 42,766 Other real estate owned 6,728 - - 6,728 Fair Value on a Recurring or Non-recurring Basis Unobservable Inputs for Level 3. For Level 3 assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring or non-recurring basis as of December 31, 2012, the significant unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurements were as follows: Significant Significant Fair Value at Valuation Unobservable Unobservable Description December 31, 2012 Technique Inputs Input Value ($ in thousands) Impaired loans $ 26,335 Appraised Value / Discounted Cash Flows / Market Value of Note Appraisals and/or sales of comparable properties / Independent quotes n/a Other real estate owned $ 5,940 Appraised Value / Comparable Sales / Other Estimates from Independent Sources Appraisals and/or sales of comparable properties / Independent quotes/bids / Forward sale contract values n/a Net Derivative Assets and Liabilities: Interest rate lock commitments $ 56 Pricing Models Weighted Average Closing Ratio 78.1 % 84 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 14 - Fair value of financial statements (continued) Fair Value of items not valued as such. The Company measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value for disclosure purposes only. The assumptions used in estimating the fair value of these financial instruments are detailed below. Cash and due from banks : The carrying amount approximates fair value. Interest-bearing deposits with banks : The carrying amount approximates fair value. Loans held for investment which are not impaired : For variable rate loans, fair values are based on carrying values. Fixed rate commercial, other installment, and certain real estate mortgage loans are valued using discounted cash flows. The discount rates used to determine the present value of these loans are based on interest rates currently being charged by the Company on comparable loans as to credit risk and term. Off-balance sheet instruments : The Company s unfunded lines of credit and loan commitments are negotiated at current market rates and are relatively short-term in nature. Deposit liabilities : The fair values of demand deposits are equal to the carrying value of such deposits. Demand deposits include non-interest bearing demand deposits, savings accounts, NOW accounts and money market demand accounts. Discounted cash flows have been used to value fixed rate and variable rate term deposits. The discount rate used is based on interest rates currently being offered by the Company on comparable deposits as to amount and term. Short-term borrowings : The carrying value of securities sold under agreements to repurchase approximates the fair value. Advances from the Federal Home Loan Bank : For variable rate advances, fair values are based on carrying values. Fixed rate advances are valued using discounted cash flows based on rates currently available to the Company on comparable borrowings with similar terms and remaining maturities. Federal funds purchased : Due to the short-term nature of these assets, the carrying value approximates fair value. Subordinated debt : The carrying value of subordinated debt approximates the fair value, since the interest rate is variable and since the terms are similar to current offerings. Trust preferred debt : The fair value of trust preferred debt was determined by discounting cash flows using a rate 3% higher than the actual current rate over an estimated remaining term of eleven years in 2012 and fourteen years in 2011. The trust preferred debt was issued at favorable rates in 2004, and current rates are approximately 3% higher when available. Accrued interest receivable and payable : The carrying amount approximates fair value. 85 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 14 - Fair value of financial statements (continued) The following presents the carrying amount, fair value, and placement in the fair value hierarchy of financial instruments at December 31, 2012 and 2011. This table excludes financial instruments for which the carrying amount approximates fair value. For short-term financial assets such as cash and due from banks and interest-bearing deposits with banks, the carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value due to the relatively short time between the origination of the instrument and its expected realization. For financial liabilities such as non-interest bearing demand deposits, NOW, money market and savings deposits, the carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value due to these products having no stated maturity. Fair Value Measurements Quoted Prices in Active Markets Significant for Identical Other Significant Assets or Observable Unobservable Carrying Fair Liabilities Inputs Inputs Amount Value (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) (in thousands) December 31, 2012 Financial Instruments - Assets Investment securities held-to-maturity $ 211 $ 225 $ - $ 225 $ - Net non-impaired loans held for investment 425,449 427,484 - - 427,484 Financial Instruments - Liabilities Time deposits 174,153 175,729 - - 175,729 Trust preferred subordinated debt 10,310 7,833 - - 7,833 December 31, 2011 Financial Instruments - Assets Investment securities held-to-maturity $ 392 $ 420 $ - $ 420 $ - Net non-impaired loans held for investment 432,472 434,505 - - 434,505 Financial Instruments - Liabilities Time deposits 214,715 216,418 - - 216,418 Trust preferred subordinated debt 10,310 7,453 - - 7,453 86 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 15 - Income per common share (EPS) The reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic income per share and diluted income per share computation at December 31, 2012 and 2011 follows: Per Income (Loss) Shares Share (Numerator) (Denominator) Amount (in thousands) 2012 Basic income per share: Net income available to common stockholders $ 6,276 3,387,045 $ 1.85 Effect of dilutive securities Stock options - 8,338 - Diluted income per share: Net income available to common stockholders and assumed conversions $ 6,276 3,395,383 $ 1.85 2011 Basic income per share: Net income available to common stockholders $ 1,223 3,387,045 $ 0.36 Effect of dilutive securities Stock options - - - Diluted income per share: Net income available to common stockholders and assumed conversions $ 1,223 3,387,045 $ 0.36 There were stock options and warrants covering 150,167 shares in 2012 and 514,176 shares in 2011 that were excluded in computing diluted common shares outstanding given that they were anti-dilutive since the exercise prices exceeded the average market prices. 87 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 16 Operating segments The Company is considered to have three principal business segments in 2012 and 2011, the Commercial/Retail Bank, the Mortgage Division, and the Holding Company. The Mortgage Division began originating home mortgage loans through third parties and selling these loans to investors in late 2007. A retail mortgage operation was added to the mortgage division in July 2011. Financial performance for 2012 and 2011, reflective of inter-company eliminations, and selected balance sheet information, reflective of inter-company eliminations, at December 31, 2012 and 2011 for each segment is as follows: Year Ended December 31, 2012 Commercial/Retail Mortgage Holding Bank Division Company Total (in thousands) Interest income $ 26,431 $ 2,955 $ 7 $ 29,393 Interest expense 1,993 2,957 256 5,206 Net interest income (loss) 24,438 (2 ) (249 ) 24,187 Provision for loan losses 2,360 - - 2,360 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 22,078 (2 ) (249 ) 21,827 Non-interest income 1,740 17,910 - 19,650 Non-interest expense 19,507 10,625 111 30,243 Income (loss) before income taxes 4,311 7,283 (360 ) 11,234 Income tax (benefit) expense 828 3,026 (122 ) 3,732 Net income (loss) $ 3,483 $ 4,257 $ (238 ) $ 7,502 Total Assets $ 556,630 $ 134,923 $ 315 $ 691,868 Net Loans 451,784 131,762 - 583,546 Equity 3,483 4,257 46,122 53,862 Year Ended December 31, 2011 Commercial/Retail Mortgage Holding Bank Division Company Total (in thousands) Interest income $ 28,929 $ 1,854 $ 7 $ 30,790 Interest expense 4,622 1,838 235 6,695 Net interest income (loss) 24,307 16 (228 ) 24,095 Provision for loan losses 6,850 - - 6,850 Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan losses 17,457 16 (228 ) 17,245 Non-interest income 1,694 9,488 - 11,182 Non-interest expense 18,413 6,971 89 25,473 Income (loss) before income taxes 738 2,533 (317 ) 2,954 Income tax (benefit) expense (341 ) 1,006 (108 ) 557 Net income (loss) $ 1,079 $ 1,527 $ (209 ) $ 2,397 Total Assets $ 579,238 $ 93,758 $ 329 $ 673,325 Net Loans 475,238 91,955 - 567,193 Equity 1,079 1,527 43,952 46,558 88 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 17 Condensed financial statements of parent company Financial information pertaining to Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. is as follows: Condensed Balance Sheets December 31, 2012 2011 (in thousands) Assets: Cash $ 77 $ 781 Investment in Carolina Capital Trust 310 310 Investment in Carolina Bank 64,758 56,386 Other assets 5 19 Total assets $ 65,150 $ 57,496 Liabilities and stockholders' equity: Accrued expenses $ 978 $ 628 Junior subordinated debentures 10,310 10,310 Stockholders' Equity 53,862 46,558 Total liabilities and stockholders' equity $ 65,150 $ 57,496 Condensed Statements of Operations Years ended December 31, 2012 2011 (in thousands) Interest income $ 9 $ 13 Interest expense 259 241 Other expense 110 89 Total expense 369 330 Income tax benefit 122 108 (Loss) before equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries (238 ) (209 ) Equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 7,740 2,606 Net income $ 7,502 $ 2,397 Dividends and accretion on preferred stock (1,226 ) (1,174 ) Net income available to common stockholders $ 6,276 $ 1,223 89 CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements December 31, 2012 and 2011 Note 17 Condensed financial statements of parent company (continued) Condensed Statements of Cash Flows Years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 2012 2011 (in thousands) Operating activities: Net income $ 7,502 $ 2,397 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash used by operating activities: Equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries (7,740 ) (2,606 ) Change in other assets 14 (15 ) Change in accrued expenses (65 ) 64 Net cash used by operating activites (289 ) (160 ) Financing activities: Dividends paid (415 ) (403 ) Net cash used by financing activities (415 ) (403 ) Net change in cash (704 ) (563 ) Cash at beginning of year 781 1,344 Cash at end of year $ 77 $ 781 Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information: Cash paid during the year for interest $ 321 $ 179 Note 18 Subsequent events Subsequent events are events or transactions that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued. Recognized subsequent events are events or transactions that provide additional evidence about conditions that existed at the date of the balance sheet, including the estimates inherent in the process of preparing financial statements. Non-recognized subsequent events are events that provide evidence about conditions that did not exist at the date of the balance sheet but arose after that date. Management has reviewed events occurring through March 25, 2013, the date the consolidated financial statements were issued and no subsequent events occurred requiring accrual or disclosure. 90 °Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE. There have been no changes in or disagreements with accountants. °Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES. Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures At the end of the period covered by this report, the company carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the company s management, including the company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the company s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-14. Based upon that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective (1) to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the company in the reports filed or submitted by it under the Securities Exchange Act was recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and (2) to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed by the company in such reports is accumulated and communicated to the company s management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting for the company. The company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of the company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the company's financial statements for external reporting purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Management has made a comprehensive review, evaluation and assessment of the company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. In making its assessment of internal control over financial reporting, management used the criteria issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ) in Internal Control Integrated Framework . In accordance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act of 2002, management makes the following assertions: Management has implemented a process to monitor and assess both the design and operating effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation. The company s management, including its principal executive officer and principal financial officer, assessed the effectiveness of the company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. In making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the COSO in Internal Control Integrated Framework . Based on that assessment, management believes that, as of December 31, 2012, the company s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. 91 This annual report does not include an attestation report of the company's registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting. Management's report was not subject to attestation by the company's registered public accounting firm pursuant to rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit the company to provide only management's report in this annual report. Date: March 25, 2013 By: /s/ Robert T. Braswell Robert T. Braswell President and Chief Executive Officer Date: March 25, 2013 By: /s/ T. Allen Liles T. Allen Liles Security, Treasurer and Principal Financial and Principal Accounting Officer Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting Management of the company has evaluated, with the participation of the company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, changes in the company's internal controls over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a 15(f) and 15d 15(f) of the Exchange Act) during the fourth quarter of 2012. In connection with such evaluation, the company has determined that there have been no changes in internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting. °Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION None. PART III °Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE. Incorporated by reference to pages 4-8 and pages 11-13 of the Proxy Statement. We have adopted a Code of Ethics that applies, among others, to our principal executive officer and principal financial officer. Our Code of Ethics is available to any person, without charge, upon written request submitted to T. Allen Liles, Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc., 101 North Spring Street, Greensboro, North Carolina 27401. °Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION. Incorporated by reference to pages 8-10 and 13-20 of the Proxy Statement. °Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS. Incorporated by reference to pages 3-4 of the Proxy Statement. 92 The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the Company s equity compensation plans at December 31, 2012. Number of securities remaining available for future issuance Number of securities Weighted-average under equity to be issued upon exercise price of compensation plans exercise of outstanding options, (excluding securities Plan Category outstanding options warrants and rights reflected in column (a)) (a) (b) (c) Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 156,581 $ 9.63 500,000 Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders None N/A None Total 156,581 $ 9.63 500,000 °Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE. Incorporated by reference to pages 8 and 20 of the Proxy Statement. °Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES. Incorporated by reference to pages 21-22 of the Proxy Statement. PART IV °Item 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES. (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report: 1. Financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: Report of independent registered public accounting firm Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 93 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders Equity for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2. Financial statement schedules required to be filed by Item 8 of this Form: None 3. Exhibits Exhibit Number Description 3.1 Articles of Incorporation of Registrant (1) 3.2 Articles of Amendment of Registrant (11) 3.3 Bylaws of Registrant (2) 4.1 Form of Stock Certificate for Common Stock (2) 4.2 Indenture (3) 4.3 Warrant to Purchase Common Stock of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc., dated January 9, 2009 (11) 4.4 Form of Stock Certificate for Series A Preferred Stock (11) 10.1 Employment Agreement of Robert T. Braswell (4) 10.2 Employment Agreement of T. Allen Liles (5) 10.3 Employment Agreement of Gunnar N. R. Fromen (5) 10.4 Employment Agreement of Daniel D. Hornfeck (5) 10.5 1997 Incentive Stock Option Plan (6) 10.6 1997 Non-qualified Stock Option Plan (7) 10.7 2007 Incentive Stock Option Plan (7) 10.8 Salary Continuation Agreement between Carolina Bank and Robert T. Braswell (8) 10.9 Salary Continuation Agreement between Carolina Bank and T. Allen Liles (9) 10.10 Salary Continuation Agreement between Carolina Bank and Gunnar N.R. Fromen (5) 10.11 Salary Continuation Agreement between Carolina Bank and Daniel D. Hornfeck (5) 10.12 Life Insurance Endorsement Method Split Dollar Plan Agreement Between Carolina Bank and Robert T. Braswell (9) 94 Exhibit Number Description 10.13 Life Insurance Endorsement Method Split Dollar Plan Agreement Between Carolina Bank and T. Allen Liles (9) 10.14 Life Insurance Endorsement Method Split Dollar Plan Agreement Between Carolina Bank and Gunnar N.R. Fromen (9) 10.15 Carolina Bank Directors Deferral Plan (9) 10.16 Director Retirement Agreement Between Carolina Bank and J. Alexander S. Barrett (5) 10.17 Director Retirement Agreement Between Carolina Bank and Gary N. Brown (5) 10.18 Director Retirement Agreement Between Carolina Bank and George E. Carr, III (5) 10.19 Director Retirement Agreement Between Carolina Bank and James E. Hooper (5) 10.20 Director Retirement Agreement Between Carolina Bank and D. Wayne Thomas (5) 10.21 Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Carolina Capital Trust (10) 10.22 Guarantee Agreement (10) 10.23 Form of Bonus Recovery Agreement (12) 10.24 Form of Golden Parachute Payment Waiver Agreement (12) 10.25 2009 Omnibus Stock Ownership and Long Term Incentive Plan (13) 10.26 Employment Agreement of Phillip B. Carmac (Filed herewith) 21.1 Subsidiaries (Filed herewith) 23.1 Consent of Cherry, Bekaert Holland, L.L.P. (Filed herewith) 31.1 Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Filed herewith) 31.2 Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Filed herewith) 32.1 Certifications Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Filed herewith) 99.1 Proxy Statement for the 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (14) 99.2 Certification pursuant to Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (Filed herewith) 99.3 Certification pursuant to Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (Filed herewith) (1) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-K of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Filed March 30, 2009 with the Securities and Exchange Commission). (2) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-KSB of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Filed April 2, 2001 with the Securities and Exchange Commission). 95 (3) Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Filed January 4, 2005 with the Securities and Exchange Commission). (4) Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K/A of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Filed June 9, 2008 with the Securities and Exchange Commission). (5) Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Filed June 5, 2008 with the Securities and Exchange Commission). (6) Incorporated by reference to the registrant s Registrant Statement on Form S-8, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 2, 2003 (7) Incorporated by reference to Form S-8 of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Filed May 11, 2000 with the Securities and Exchange Commission). (8) Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Filed May 27, 2008 with the Securities and Exchange Commission). (9) Incorporated by reference to Form 10-KSB of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Filed March 28, 2003 with the Securities and Exchange Commission). (10) Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Filed January 4, 2005 with the Securities and Exchange Commission). (11) Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Filed January 13, 2009 with the Securities and Exchange Commission). (12) Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Filed February 5, 2010 with the Securities and Exchange Commission). (13) Incorporated by reference to Form 8-K of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc. (Filed March 5, 2010 with the Securities and Exchange Commission). (14) Filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission Pursuant to Rule 14a-6. 96 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. CAROLINA BANK HOLDINGS, INC. (Registrant) By: /s/ Robert T. Braswell Robert T. Braswell President and Chief Executive Officer Date: March 25, 2013 1 In accordance with the Exchange Act, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. /s/ Donald H. Allred March 25, 2013 Donald H. Allred Director /s/ Susan Alt March 25, 2013 Susan Alt Director /s/ Robert T. Braswell March 25, 2013 Robert T. Braswell President, Chief Executive Officer and Director /s/ Kevin J. Baker March 25, 2013 Kevin J. Baker Director /s/ J. Alexander S. Barrett March 25, 2013 J. Alexander S. Barrett Director /s/ Stephen K. Bright March 25, 2013 Stephen K. Bright Director /s/ Gary N. Brown March 25, 2013 Gary N. Brown Chairman of the Board of Directors /s/ Michael F. Bumpass March 25, 2013 Michael Bumpass Director /s/ George E. Carr March 25, 2013 George E. Carr Director /s/ James E. Hooper March 25, 2013 James E. Hooper Director /s/ J. Edward Kitchen March 25, 2013 J. Edward Kitchen Director /s/ T. Allen Liles March 25, 2013 T. Allen Liles Secretary, Treasurer and Principal Financial and Principal Accounting Officer 2 EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description 3.1 Articles of Incorporation of Registrant * 3.3 Bylaws of Registrant* 4.1 Form of Stock Certificate* 4.2 Indenture* 4.3 Warrant to Purchase Common Stock of Carolina Bank Holdings, Inc., dated January 9, 2009* 4.4 Form of Stock Certificate for Series A Preferred Stock* 10.1 Employment Agreement of Robert T. Braswell* 10.2 Employment Agreement of T. Allen Liles* 10.3 Employment Agreement of Gunnar N. R. Fromen* 10.4 Employment Agreement of Daniel D. Hornfeck* 10.5 1997 Incentive Stock Option Plan* 10.6 1997 Non-qualified Stock Option Plan* 10.7 2007 Incentive Stock Option Plan* 10.8 Salary Continuation Agreement between Carolina Bank and Robert T. Braswell* 10.9 Salary Continuation Agreement between Carolina Bank and T. Allen Liles* 10.10 Salary Continuation Agreement between Carolina Bank and Gunnar N.R. Fromen* 10.11 Salary Continuation Agreement between Carolina Bank and Daniel D. Hornfeck* 10.12 Life Insurance Endorsement Method Split Dollar Plan Agreement Between Carolina Bank and Robert T. Braswell* 10.13 Life Insurance Endorsement Method Split Dollar Plan Agreement Between Carolina Bank and T. Allen Liles* 10.14 Life Insurance Endorsement Method Split Dollar Plan Agreement Between Carolina Bank and Gunnar N.R. Fromen* 10.15 Carolina Bank Directors Deferral Plan* 10.16 Director Retirement Agreement Between Carolina Bank and J. Alexander S. Barrett* 10.17 Director Retirement Agreement Between Carolina Bank and Gary N. Brown* 10.18 Director Retirement Agreement Between Carolina Bank and George E. Carr, III* 10.19 Director Retirement Agreement Between Carolina Bank and James E. Hooper* 10.20 Director Retirement Agreement Between Carolina Bank and D. Wayne Thomas* 10.21 Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Carolina Capital Trust* 10.22 Guarantee Agreement* 10.23 Form of Bonus Recovery Agreement* 10.24 Form of Golden Parachute Waiver Agreement* 10.25 2009 Omnibus Stock Ownership and Long Term Incentive Plan* 10.26 Employment Agreement of Phillip B. Carmac* 21.1 Subsidiaries (Filed herewith) 23.1 Consent of Cherry, Bekaert Holland, L.L.P. (Filed herewith) 31.1 Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Filed herewith) 31.2 Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Filed herewith) 32.1 Certifications Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (Filed herewith) 99.1 Proxy Statement for 2012 Annual Meeting of shareholders** 99.2 Certification pursuant to Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (Filed herewith) 99.3 Certification pursuant to Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended (Filed herewith) * Incorporated by reference. ** To be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 14a-6. 3 
