 UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K Encompass Energy Services, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 74-3252949 State of other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization (IRS Employer Identification No. 914 North Broadway Avenue, Suite 220 P.O. Box 1218 Oklahoma City, OK 73101 (Address of principal executive offices, including Zip Code) (405) 815-4041 Registrant s telephone number, including area code Securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act: None Securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act: Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act Yes [_] No [X] Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. Yes [_] No [X] Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_] Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes [X] No [_] Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [_] Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or smaller reporting company: Large accelerated filer [_] Accelerated filer [_] Non-accelerated filer [_] Smaller reporting company [X] (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes [X] No [_] The aggregate market value of Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 30, 2013, was approximately $197,000. As of March 13, 2014, there were 2,056,983 shares of the Registrant s Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share ( Common Stock ), outstanding. DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE Portions of the Registrant s definitive proxy statement for its 2014 annual meeting of stockholders (expected to be filed within 120 days of the close of the Registrant s fiscal year) are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K. ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. FORM 10-K Table of Contents Page PART I 1 °Item 1. Business 1 °Item 1A. Risk Factors 5 °Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 5 °Item 2. Properties 5 °Item 3. Legal Proceedings 5 °Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 6 PART II 6 °Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 6 °Item 6. Selected Financial Data 7 °Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 7 °Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 9 °Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 9 °Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 9 °Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 9 °Item 9B. Other Information 12 PART III 12 PART IV 12 °Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statements Schedules 12 -i- PART I Statements that we make in this Form 10-K that are not historical or current facts are forward-looking statements made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions in the federal securities laws and judicial interpretations thereof. These statements often can be identified by the use of terms such as may, will, expect, anticipate, estimate, or continue, or the negative thereof. Such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date made. Any forward-looking statements represent management s best judgment as to what may occur in the future. However, forward-looking statements are subject to many risks, uncertainties and important facts beyond our control that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from historical results of operations and events and those presently anticipated or projected. We disclaim any obligation to revise any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of such statement or to reflect the occurrence of anticipated or unanticipated events. °Item 1. Business. When used in this Form 10-K, the terms we, our, us, the Company and similar terms refer to Encompass Energy Services, Inc. Corporate History; Prior change of Control Transaction We were formed in December 2007 as a Delaware limited liability company. On February 12, 2008, we were converted from this limited liability company into a Delaware corporation and changed our name from Ametrine Capital, LLC to Ametrine Capital, Inc. We initially contemplated doing business as a closed-end, non-diversified management investment company, and we filed an election to be regulated as a business development company ( BDC ) under the Investment Company Act of 1940 (the 1940 Act ), with the intent to invest primarily in the equity and debt securities of non-public U.S. and Israeli-based small and mid-sized companies. However, we were not successful in raising adequate capital to commence effective operations as a BDC. Through November 2010, our operations were primarily funded by Tailormade Holdings Ltd (formerly known as Meitav Underwriting Ltd.), which was our majority stockholder. Our former management determined to change our prior business plan and to withdraw our election to be regulated as a BDC, in order to pursue other business opportunities. On July 26, 2010, the holder of a majority of the shares of our outstanding common stock authorized and approved a change in our business so that we could cease to be a BDC and also approved our filing of a withdrawal of our election previously made to the Securities and Exchange Commission (the Commission ) to be subject to Sections 55 through 65 of the 1940 Act. We subsequently filed a Form N-54C with the Commission on November 19, 2010, in order to withdraw our election to be subject to Sections 55 through 65 of the 1940 Act. On November 30, 2010, our largest stockholder, Tailormade Holdings Ltd., sold its entire interest in the Company (being 4,026,559 shares, or approximately 92% of our issued and outstanding shares of common stock at the time) in a private transaction (the Change of Control Transaction ). 3,676,559 shares, or approximately 84% of our outstanding common stock at the time, were acquired by Deylau, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company owned and controlled by one of our directors, Kristian B. Kos, in the Change of Control Transaction. The other 350,000 shares transferred in the Change of Control Transaction, or approximately 8% of our outstanding common stock at the time, were acquired by Debra Herman. Pursuant to the terms of the Change of Control Transaction, our directors and sole executive officer at the time resigned, and new persons, including Mr. Kos, were appointed to serve as directors and executive officers. 1 The new management appointed following the Change of Control Transaction identified and briefly pursued a possible acquisition of certain oil and gas properties and assets located in Oklahoma from Scintilla, LLC, an entity controlled by David J. Chernicky, who had been appointed as a director and the chairman of our board of directors immediately following the Change of Control Transaction. In anticipation of this possible acquisition (the Scintilla Transaction ), we amended our certificate of incorporation on April 15, 2011, to effectuate a reverse 0.47-for-1 stock split with respect to our outstanding common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and then we filed an amended and restated certificate of incorporation on April 18, 2011 that changed our corporate name from Ametrine Capital, Inc. to New Source Energy Group, Inc. and effectuated certain other changes. Subsequent to these actions, we were informed by the financial advisor we had engaged to assist with this prospective transaction that the lender and investment banking firm that we hoped would provide a line of credit to us and assist us in raising a significant amount of equity financing were now unwilling or unable to proceed with structuring those transactions on our behalf. We were dependent on access to this line of credit and equity financing to complete the Scintilla Transaction and implement our intended business plan, and without access to a significant amount of debt and equity financing our board of directors concluded that we were unable to complete the Scintilla Transaction and directed us to abandon our efforts in this respect on June 30, 2011. Although general terms were being negotiated with Scintilla, we never entered into any definitive agreement relating to the Scintilla Transaction. Immediately following our board of directors determination to abandon our pursuit of the Scintilla Transaction, Mr. Chernicky and Phil B. Albert both resigned from our board of directors, Mr. Kos resigned from his positions as our president and chief executive officer, and Richard Finley resigned from his positions as our chief financial officer, treasurer and secretary. Our board of directors appointed Antranik Armoudian as a director to fill one of the resulting vacancies and also to the positions of president, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer and secretary effective as of June 30, 2011. In connection with our investigation and analysis of the potential Scintilla Transaction, we expended a significant amount of financial resources. We retained certain professional advisors to conduct various activities on our behalf, including an audit of the financial results attributable to the identified assets of Scintilla and due diligence with respect to these identified assets, to negotiate various terms of the potential transaction and begin preparing various regulatory filings that would have been required had the transaction been completed, and to better position us to raise capital. As a result, we concluded that we had developed a significant amount of knowledge, information and work product (collectively the Business Opportunity and Information ) that could have value to another buyer of the identified assets of Scintilla, and our board of directors directed Mr. Armoudian, as the only independent member of our board, to negotiate for and on behalf of the Company with respect to the transfer of the Business Opportunity and Information and to seek an alternative business opportunity which may, or may not, be within the oil and gas industry. 2 On our behalf, Mr. Armoudian successfully negotiated with New Dominion, LLC, an affiliate of Scintilla, LLC, a payment of $600,000 in exchange for our waiver of further rights with respect to the Business Opportunity and Information and our agreement to reasonably assist New Dominion, LLC and its affiliates in the exploitation of the Business Opportunity and Information. We entered into an instrument confirming this waiver on July 18, 2011 and received the $600,000 payment contemporaneously. Subsequent to negotiating this waiver, our board of directors approved a name change for our Company to Encompass Energy Services, Inc., primarily because the board of directors expected us to evaluate and pursue one or more business opportunities in the oilfield services industry. The board of directors also believed our continued use of the name New Source Energy Group, Inc. might result in market confusion regarding our planned operations and business objectives, especially in light of the existence of another company by the name of New Source Energy Corporation, which acquired the oil and natural gas assets previously considered for acquisition by us in the Scintilla Transaction. Accordingly, we amended our certificate of incorporation to change our corporate name to Encompass Energy Services, Inc. on December 2, 2011. Current Company Status We are not currently engaged in any business operations. We continue to search for and evaluate opportunities in the oilfield services industry and other industries. If we determine to pursue a particular acquisition in the future, we intend to conduct a customary due diligence investigation. No acquisition will take place unless and until there is a definitive agreement between us and the prospective seller(s), due diligence has been completed, and adequate debt and equity financing has been raised. As of the date of filing this Annual Report, we have not entered into any agreements or understandings (written or oral) for any acquisition of assets or any debt or equity financing necessary for the completion of any such acquisition and the operation of such assets following such acquisition. Given the uncertainties in connection with any acquisition, we can offer no assurance that we will be able to complete any transaction and obtain the necessary debt and equity financing on terms acceptable to us. Additionally, it is possible that one or more acquisitions we may pursue may involve a related party. Although we will attempt to take measures to ensure that the terms of the transaction are in our best interests, we may elect not to obtain a fairness opinion with respect to such a transaction, and there can be no assurance that any such transaction ultimately will be fair to our stockholders. 3 There are many reasons we may not be able to execute upon any business opportunity we identify in the future. These reasons include: (i) We may not be able to negotiate an acquisition agreement on terms that our board of directors finds to be acceptable from a financial and business perspective. (ii) Our due diligence investigation may not be satisfactory and may reflect significant concerns that cannot be adequately addressed. (iii) We may not be able to find adequate debt and/or equity financing sufficient to consummate the acquisition, and any debt or equity financing we are able to obtain may not be available on terms that we find to be acceptable, or the terms may result in greater interest payment and other obligations that may adversely impact our operations. (iv) We may not be able to raise the equity capital necessary to provide funds for the continuing operations of our business, and any equity financing we are able to obtain may not be on terms that we find to be acceptable, or the terms may result in much greater dilution than expected. (v) The Commission may choose to review our filings, thereby delaying or halting our ability to complete any corporate restructuring we may conclude is a necessary condition precedent to completing an acquisition as contemplated, or at all. (vi) Other unforeseen events may occur that make a contemplated transaction less attractive or more difficult to negotiate, and these events may be specific to us, or may be regional, national or international events that affect the equity markets, the debt markets, or other markets. Identifying and executing upon any business opportunity, whether in the oilfield service industry or another sector, likely will require a significant amount of capital. We cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to identify or to execute upon another business opportunity. Instead, we may explore terminating our reporting obligations under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the Exchange Act ), or we (and/or our principal stockholders) may seek to dispose of their interests in the Company or otherwise transfer control of the Company to another person. To the extent that we are able to execute upon a business opportunity (whether in the oilfield service industry or another industry), we will compete with others in that industry and likely be subject to a significant amount of government regulation. We currently have no patents, patent applications, or other material interest in intellectual property. During the last ten years we have not produced any products or offered any services, and therefore we are not currently dependent on any material customer relationships. We do not currently conduct any research and development. We do not currently own any real property or engage in any business operations, and therefore environmental compliance is not material to us. However should we execute upon a business opportunity in the oilfield service industry, our operations may be subject to extensive rules and regulations promulgated by federal, state, tribal and local authorities and agencies. For example, most jurisdictions have environmental, health and safety statutes and regulations that could impact an oilfield services business in a number of ways. Failure to comply with any such rules and regulations can result in substantial penalties. Any increased regulatory burden will increase our cost of doing business and affect our profitability. 4 Employees We currently have one employee, Antranik Armoudian, our president, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer and secretary, who does not devote his full business time to our activities. If we are able to execute upon a business opportunity in the oilfield service industry (or any other industry), we expect that additional employees and/or consultants will be retained as necessary. Additional Information We file reports with the Commission as required by Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act. The public may read and copy any materials filed by the Company with the Commission at its public reference room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the Commission at 1-800-SEC-0330. The Commission maintains an Internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the Commission at www.sec.gov. We do not currently maintain a corporate website. °Item 1A. Risk Factors. Not required. °Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. °Item 2. Properties. During the year ended December 31, 2013, and through the date of this Annual Report, the Company owned no real property and no material personal property. We previously leased office space from our controlling stockholder, Deylau, LLC (which is controlled by one of our directors, Mr. Kos) located at 914 North Broadway Avenue, Suite 220, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73101, as our principal executive offices, but we assigned our leasehold rights to these premises to Mr. Kos concurrently with our waiver of the Business Opportunity and Information discussed in Item 1. Our present business operations are not sufficient to require a permanent physical office. Rather, our executive officer and directors perform their duties on our behalf using other office space available to them, at no charge to us. We believe this arrangement is suitable for our current needs. °Item 3. Legal Proceedings. We are not a party to any legal proceedings, and no such proceedings are known to be contemplated. 5 °Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures. Not applicable. PART II °Item 5. Market for Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Market Information Our common stock has been approved for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board under the symbol EESI, but despite this fact no active trading market has developed for our common stock. We are aware of only a limited number of reported trades involving our common stock since it was approved for quotation on the OTC Bulletin Board on December 28, 2009, and we have been unable to locate a source of reliable bid price, ask price and quotation data at a reasonable cost. Holders There were 13 record holders of our common stock, par value $0.01 per share, as of March 13, 2014. Dividends We have not paid a dividend with respect to our common stock since our inception. We do not expect to pay a dividend on our common stock in the foreseeable future. There are no contractual restrictions on our ability to pay dividends to our stockholders. However, the Delaware General Corporation Law restricts our ability to pay dividends. The Delaware General Corporation Law provides that a Delaware corporation may pay dividends either: (i) out of the corporation s surplus (as defined by Delaware law); or (ii) if there is no surplus, out of the corporation s net profit for the fiscal year in which the dividend is declared or the preceding fiscal year. Any determination in the future to pay dividends will depend on our financial condition, capital requirements, results of operations, contractual limitations, legal restrictions and any other factors our board of directors deems relevant. Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans We have not adopted any equity compensation plans. Sales of Unregistered Equity Securities We did not make any unregistered sales of equity securities during the year ended December 31, 2013. Repurchases of Equity Securities We did not repurchase any of our equity securities during the fourth quarter of 2013. 6 °Item 6. Selected Financial Data. Not required. °Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation. Summary As previously stated, the Company essentially has been inactive since its formation. Until November 19, 2010 the Company was regulated as a BDC under the 1940 Act. However, the Company was not able to raise sufficient capital to execute upon its original business plan. The Company s election to withdraw as a BDC under the 1940 Act resulted in a change in the Company s method of accounting. BDC financial statement presentation and accounting utilizes the value method of accounting used by investment companies, which allows BDCs to recognize income and value their investments at market value as opposed to historical cost. Results of Operations Years Ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 General and Administrative Expenses . General and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased 9% to $298,483 compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. The increase in 2013 primarily was attributable to an increase in salary for Mr. Armoudian approved by the board of directors in the fourth quarter of 2012. All of our 2013 expenses were general and administrative costs (including accounting and legal fees) incurred to fund our limited operations and to satisfy our disclosure obligations under the federal securities laws. Interest Expense . Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2013, was $19,321 compared to $2,537 in 2012. Interest expense during 2013 was attributable to related party loans from our primary stockholder and its affiliates to fund our operations. Net Loss . Our net loss for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $317,804, as compared to a net loss of $277,614 for the year ended December 31, 2012. Net loss in 2013 was attributable to general and administrative costs incurred. Our net loss was greater in 2013 as compared to 2012 due to increased general and administrative expenses previously described above. We anticipate that we will continue to incur significant net losses as we continue to pursue business opportunities. We will pursue these business opportunities to the extent that our management has identified opportunities that it believes are worth pursuing, and to the extent that we have sufficient funds to do so. At the present time, we have no source of revenues from operations, and we can provide no assurance that we will generate a source of revenues from operations, either as a result of a strategic transaction, or as a result of developing such a source from within. 7 Capital Resources and Liquidity We have been without adequate funds since our inception. At December 31, 2013, we had current assets of $453 and current liabilities of $560,554 resulting in a net working capital deficit of $560,101. Our assets consist solely of cash and cash equivalents. Cash used in operating activities during 2013 was $337,944. Since the Change of Control Transaction, we have funded our operations primarily through loans provided by our majority stockholder, Deylau, LLC, and its affiliates. These loans are repayable by us upon demand and bear interest at 5% per annum. We cannot offer any assurance that Deylau, LLC and its affiliates will be able or willing to continue to advance funds for our operations, and if they fail to do so, we may not be able to survive unless we obtain funding in sufficient amounts from other sources. As of December 31, 2013, we had total liabilities of $560,554. These liabilities were composed of the related party loans described above, payroll obligations, and accounting and legal fees. Our limited assets likely are not sufficient to fund our operations through the remainder of 2014. In the short term we expect to use our limited cash on hand to pay our basic general and administrative costs, and otherwise to rely on our officers, directors and majority stockholder to advance funds to us. In order for us to be able to pursue and consummate any potential business opportunity we identify, we will need to identify and obtain one or more outside sources of funding. We expect any business opportunity we determine to pursue will require a significant amount of capital and sources of liquidity. We cannot offer any assurance that we will be able to raise any additional funds to help us complete a strategic transaction or fund our planned operations and activities. Contractual Obligations As described above, we are obligated to repay our majority stockholder for the amounts it has advanced to us (with interest) upon demand. We also pay Mr. Armoudian, who serves as our president, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, treasurer and secretary, an annual salary of $150,000. Mr. Armoudian s relationship with us is terminable at will by either party. Apart from the foregoing, we do not presently have any other contractual obligations. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have no significant off-balance sheet arrangements that have or are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that are material to our stockholders. Critical Accounting Policies The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States requires management to make a variety of estimates and assumptions that affect (i) the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements and (ii) the reported amounts of expenses during the reporting periods covered by the financial statements. Our management routinely makes judgments and estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. As the number of variables and assumptions affecting the future resolution of the uncertainties increase, these judgments become even more subjective and complex. Although we believe that our estimates and assumptions are reasonable, actual results may differ significantly from these estimates. Changes in estimates and assumptions based upon actual results may have a material impact on our results of operation and/or financial condition. 8 Our significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note B to the Financial Statements included in this Form 10-K. °Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk. Not required. °Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. The information required by this Item begins on page F-1 found at the end of this Annual Report and is incorporated into this part by reference. °Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. None. °Item 9A. Controls and Procedures. Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures As required by Rule 13a-15 under the Exchange Act, our management carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered in this Annual Report. Disclosure controls and procedures are controls and other procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Commission s rules and forms. These include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive and financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. This evaluation was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive and financial officer, who concluded that, because of the material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting described below, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2013. A material weakness is a deficiency or a combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting such that there is not a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. 9 Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our management is also responsible for establishing internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision of our principal executive and financial officer and effected by our board of directors, management and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. It includes those policies and procedures our management has determined to be necessary that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on our financial statements. As of December 31, 2013, our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and Commission guidance on conducting such assessments by smaller reporting companies and non-accelerated filers. Based on that assessment, our management concluded that such internal controls and procedures were not effective as of December 31, 2013, and that material weaknesses in internal control over financial reporting existed as more fully described below. As defined by Auditing Standard No. 5, An Audit of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting that is Integrated with an Audit of Financial Statements and Related Independence Rule and Conforming Amendments , established by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, a material weakness is a deficiency or combination of deficiencies in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected. In connection with the assessment described above, our management identified the following control deficiencies that constitute material weaknesses as of December 31, 2013: (i) Lack of an independent audit committee or audit committee financial expert, and lack of a majority of independent directors . Although we previously established an audit committee, none of the current members of our board of directors has been appointed to serve on this committee. We have not identified an audit committee financial expert on our board of directors, and at the present time we do not have a majority of independent directors. These factors are contrary to corporate governance best practices as defined by the various stock exchanges and may lead to less supervision over management. 10 (ii) Inadequate staffing and supervision within our bookkeeping operations . We have only a single employee involved in bookkeeping functions, and we utilize independent consultants on a part time basis to supplement our accounting staff. The relatively small number of people who are responsible for bookkeeping functions prevents us from segregating duties within our internal control system. The inadequate segregation of duties is a weakness because it could lead to the untimely identification and resolution of accounting and disclosure matters or could lead to a failure to perform timely and effective reviews, which may result in a failure to detect errors in spreadsheets, calculations, or assumptions used to compile the financial statements and related disclosures as filed with the Commission. (iii) Insufficient installation of information technology to assist in our accounting functions . Because of a lack of working capital and personnel, we have been unable to upgrade our information technology software and hardware to assist in providing effective controls. Due to a lack of financial and personnel resources, we are not able to, and do not intend to, immediately take any action to remediate these material weaknesses. We will not be able to do so until we acquire sufficient financing and staff to do so. We will implement further controls as circumstances, our cash flow, and our working capital permit. Notwithstanding the assessment that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective and that there were material weaknesses as identified in this report, we believe that our financial statements contained in this Annual Report, fairly present our financial position, results of operations and cash flows as of the respective dates and for the respective years covered thereby in all material respects. When and if funds are available to us, we expect that we will: (i) appoint additional independent directors to our board of directors and formally appoint an independent audit committee, which will oversee the establishment and monitoring of required internal controls and procedures; (ii) create positions to segregate duties consistent with control objectives and increase our personnel resources; and (iii) hire independent third parties to render expert advice relating to our internal controls and procedures. We will continue to monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of our internal controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting on an ongoing basis and will take further action and implement additional enhancements or improvements, as funds allow. This Annual Report does not include an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm regarding internal control over financial reporting due to the exemption from such requirement for smaller reporting companies. 11 Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting During the fourth quarter of 2013, no change occurred in our internal control over financial reporting that materially affected, or is likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. °Item 9B. Other Information. Not applicable. PART III In accordance with the provisions of General Instruction G(3), the information required by Items 10 through 14 of Part III of this Form 10-K is incorporated herein by reference to the Company s definitive proxy statement for its 2014 annual meeting of stockholders (expected to be filed within 120 days of the close of the Company s fiscal year pursuant to Regulation 14A of the General Rules and Regulations under the Exchange Act). PART IV °Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report. (i) Financial Statements : See Table of Contents to Encompass Energy Services, Inc. Financial Statements as of December 31, 2013 set forth on page F-1 of this Annual Report. (ii) Exhibits : For a list of documents filed as exhibits to this Annual Report, see the Exhibit Index immediately preceding the exhibits filed with this Annual Report. 12 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. Date: March 31, 2014 ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. By: /s/_Antranik Armoudian Antranik Armoudian, President, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Treasurer and Secretary Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated. Date: March 31, 2014 /s/ Kristian B. Kos Kristian B. Kos, Director Date: March 31, 2014 /s/ Antranik Armoudian Antranik Armoudian, Director 13 ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2013 TABLE OF CONTENTS Page Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm F-2 Balance Sheets F-3 Statements of Operations F-4 Statements of Comprehensive Income F-5 Statements of Changes in Equity (Deficit) F-6 Statements of Cash Flows F-7 Notes to Financial Statements F-8 to F-12 F-1 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Encompass Energy Services, Inc. We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Encompass Energy Services, Inc. (the Company ), as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 and the related statements of operations, comprehensive income, changes in equity (deficit), and cash flows for each of the two years then ended. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. The company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform an audit of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Encompass Energy Services, Inc. as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of its operations, changes in equity and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2013, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note A. to the financial statements, the Company has suffered losses from operations and has negative cash flows from operations that raise substantial doubt about its ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty. Our opinion is not modified with respect to this matter. Ziv Haft. Certified Public Accountants (Isr.) BDO Member Firm Tel-Aviv, Israel March 31, 2014 F-2 ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. BALANCE SHEETS December 31 December 31 2013 2012 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 453 $ 4,397 Total current assets 453 4,397 Property and equipment 880 1,422 Total assets $ 1,333 $ 5,819 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY (DEFICIT) Current liabilities: Accounts payable $ 8,196 $ 48,199 Related party notes payable 552,358 199,037 Total current liabilities 560,554 247,236 Equity (deficit): Authorized shares: 180,000,000 shares of common stock and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock; 2,056,983 shares of common stock were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2013 and 2012 20,569 20,569 Additional paid-in capital 226,654 226,654 Accumulated deficit (806,444 ) (488,640 ) Total equity (deficit) (559,221 ) (241,417 ) Total liabilities and equity (deficit) $ 1,333 $ 5,819 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. F-3 ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 REVENUES: Revenues $ $ OPERATING EXPENSES: General and administrative 298,483 275,077 Total operating expenses 298,483 275,077 Operating loss (298,483 ) (275,077 ) Financial expenses (19,321 ) (2,537 ) Loss before income taxes (317,804 ) (277,614 ) Income tax expense Net loss $ (317,804 ) $ (277,614 ) Loss per common share: Weighted average shares outstanding basic and diluted 2,056,983 2,056,983 Loss per share basic and diluted $ (0.15 ) $ (0.13 ) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. F-4 ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Net loss $ (317,804 ) $ (277,614 ) Other comprehensive income, net of tax: Total comprehensive loss $ (317,804 ) $ (277,614 ) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. F-5 ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY (DEFICIT) Share Capital Number of Shares Amount Additional paid-in capital Accumulated deficit Total Balance at December 31, 2011 2,056,983 $ 20,569 $ 226,654 $ (211,026 ) $ 36,197 Total comprehensive loss $ (277,614 ) $ (277,614 ) Balance at December 31, 2012 2,056,983 $ 20,569 $ 226,654 $ (488,640 ) $ (241,417 ) Total comprehensive loss (317,804 ) (317,804 ) Balance at December 31, 2013 2,056,983 $ 20,569 $ 226,654 $ (806,444 ) $ (559,221 ) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. F-6 ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net loss $ (317,804 ) $ (277,614 ) Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used in operating activities Depreciation expenses 542 203 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Prepaid expenses 19,234 Accounts payable (40,003 ) 36,450 Related party accounts payable (10,931 ) Interest expenses on the related party notes payable 19,321 2,537 Net cash used in operating activities (337,944 ) (230,121 ) CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Purchase of property and equipment (1,625 ) Net cash used in investing activities (1,625 ) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Related party notes payable, net 334,000 177,107 Net cash provided by financing activities 334,000 177,107 NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (3,944 ) (54,639 ) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, AT BEGINNING OF PERIOD 4,397 59,036 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, AT END OF PERIOD $ 453 $ 4,397 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements. F-7 ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE A. Organization Encompass Energy Services, Inc. (the Company ) is a Delaware corporation formed on February 12, 2008 under the name Ametrine Capital, Inc. The Company filed an amended and restated Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State that changed its legal name to New Source Energy Group, Inc. on April 18, 2011. On December 2, 2011, the Company filed another amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation with the Delaware Secretary of State that changed its legal name from New Source Energy Group, Inc. to Encompass Energy Services, Inc. Both the Company s board of directors and the holder of 1,727,983 shares of the Company s common stock (approximately 84% of the issued and outstanding shares thereof) at the time approved the amendment to the Company s Certificate of Incorporation to effectuate the name change on October 31, 2011. The approval of this amendment was described in a Definitive Information Statement on Schedule 14C filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission and distributed to the Company s stockholders on November 10, 2011. Currently, the Company is not engaged in any business operation. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared assuming that the Company will continue as a going concern. The Company has suffered cumulative losses and negative cash flows from operations since inception. Currently, the Company depends on financing provided by its stockholders. These conditions give rise to substantial doubt about the Company s ability to continue as a going concern. The financial statements do not include any adjustments that may result from the outcome of this uncertainty. NOTE B. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Basis of presentation. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted ( GAAP ) in the United States of America. Use of estimates in preparation of financial statements. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the dates of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of expenses during the reporting periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents consist of demand deposits and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less. Cash and cash equivalents are carried at cost which approximates fair value. Income taxes. Deferred taxes are determined utilizing the asset and liability method, whereby deferred tax asset and liability account balances are determined based on differences between financial reporting and the tax basis of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when the differences are expected to reverse. The Company provides a valuation allowance when it s more likely than not that deferred tax assets will not be realized in the foreseeable future. F-8 ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Fair value of financial instruments. The Company discloses fair value measurements for financial and non-financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value. Fair value is based on the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The accounting standard establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes observable and unobservable inputs used to measure fair value into three broad levels, which are described below: Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for assets or liabilities. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1 inputs. Level 2: Observable prices that are based on inputs not quoted on active markets but corroborated by market data. Level 3: Unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. The fair value hierarchy gives the lowest priority to Level 3 inputs. Financial items carried at fair value as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 consisted entirely of cash and cash equivalents and are classified as Level 1. Comprehensive Income. The Company accounts for comprehensive income in accordance with ASC No. 220, Comprehensive Income. Comprehensive income generally represents all changes in stockholders equity during the period except those resulting from investments by, or distributions to, stockholders. Recent accounting pronouncements. In February 2013, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued ASU No. 2013-02, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220): Reporting of Amounts Reclassified out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income . This ASU requires disclosures regarding reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income in a single location in the financial statements by component. This ASU is effective prospectively for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2012. The adoption of this ASU, effective January 1, 2013, did not have an impact on our financial statements. In July 2013, the FASB issued guidance that requires that a non-recognized tax benefit be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carry forward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carry forward. This net presentation is required unless a net operating loss carry forward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carry forward is not available at the reporting date or the tax law of the jurisdiction does not require, and the entity does not intend to use, the deferred tax asset to settle any additional income tax that would result from the disallowance of the unrecognized tax benefit. This guidance is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2013, with early adoption permitted. The Company is assessing whether the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. F-9 ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE C. Earnings per Share Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 1. Numerator $ (317,804 ) $ (277,614 ) Net loss 2. Denominator: Denominator for basic an diluted net loss per share - weighted average of shares 2,056,983 2,056,983 Basic and diluted loss per share attributed to stockholders $ (0.15 ) $ (0.13 ) NOTE D. Income Taxes Deferred income taxes. Deferred taxes are determined by applying the provisions of enacted tax laws and rates for the jurisdictions in which the Company operates to the estimated future tax effects of the differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the Company s financial statements. A valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax assets if it is more likely than not that the related tax benefits will not be realized. Significant components of the Company s deferred tax assets are as follows: Year ended December 31, 2013 2012 Operating loss carry forward $ 284,000 $ 161,000 Deferred tax asset before valuation allowance 284,000 161,000 Valuation allowance (284,000 ) (161,000 ) Net deferred tax asset $ $ Management currently believes that since the Company has a history of losses it is more likely than not that the deferred tax regarding the loss carry forwards and other temporary differences will not be realized in the foreseeable future. Reconciliation between statutory tax to effective tax. The main reconciling items between the statutory tax rate of the Company and the effective tax rate are changes in valuation allowance. Uncertain tax position. The Company has recorded no liability for income taxes associated with unrecognized tax benefits at the date of adoption and has not recorded any liability associated with unrecognized tax benefits during 2013 and 2012. Accordingly, the Company has not recorded any interest or penalty in regard to any unrecognized benefit. F-10 ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS NOTE E. Related Party Transactions During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Company s president advanced approximately $380,000 cash and provided $103,000 of property and equipment to the Company in exchange for a note payable. These were demand loans and accrued interest at 5% per annum. As of March 31, 2012, the Company had repaid these loans in full. During 2012, Deylau, LLC, our controlling stockholder, advanced another $196,500 to the Company in exchange for a note payable. During 2013, Deylau, LLC, advanced an additional $50,000 to the Company on this note payable. This is a demand loan and accrues interest at 5% per annum. No payments of principal or interest have been made on the 2012 or 2013 loan advances as of December 31, 2013. During 2013, Torus, LLC, an entity in which Deylau, LLC owns a 50% interest, advanced $284,000 to the Company in exchange for a note payable. This is a demand loan and accrues interest at 5% per annum. No payments of principal or interest have been made on these advances as of December 31, 2013. NOTE F. Capital Stock. Number of shares as of December 31 2012 and 2013 Authorized Issued and outstanding Common stock, par value $0.01 per share 180,000,000 2,056,983 Preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share 20,000,000 Common Stock. Common Stock confers upon its holders the rights to receive notice to participate and vote in general meetings of the Company, and the right to receive dividends if declared. NOTE G. Changes in Officers and Directors / Outstanding Stock Option On June 30, 2011, Antranik Armoudian was appointed to the Company s board of directors and also as the Company s president, chief executive officer, chief financial officer, secretary, and treasurer. There was no arrangement or understanding pursuant to which Mr. Armoudian was appointed as a director or executive officer, except that the Company agreed to pay Mr. Armoudian an annual salary of $25,000, which the Company s board of directors subsequently increased to $150,000 effective October 1, 2012. Also on June 30, 2011, the Company granted Mr. Armoudian a stock option to acquire 50,000 shares of the Company s common stock at an exercise price of $0.10 per share and exercisable for a ten-year term, expiring June 30, 2021. 10,000 shares vested upon the Company completing the transfer of the Business Opportunity and Information, and the remaining 40,000 shares will vest when, and if, the Company completes the acquisition of another business opportunity and files a current report on Form 8-K (or other appropriate form) reporting such acquisition or transaction. F-11 ENCOMPASS ENERGY SERVICES, INC. NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS During the year ended December 31, 2011, 50,000 stock options were granted (being the option to Mr. Armoudian described above) with a weighted-average grant date fair value for each option of approximately $0.86. Assumptions used in the Company s Black-Scholes valuation model to estimate the grant date fair value were expected volatility of 50%, expected dividends of 0%, expected term of 5 years, and a risk-free interest rate of 1.75%. As of December 31, 2013, there was $34,412 of total unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options. That cost is expected to be recognized if an acquisition of a business opportunity is completed within the next ten years. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company issued no stock options and recognized no stock based compensation. The following table summarizes the Company s stock option activity for the year ended December 31, 2013: Year Ended December 31, 2013 Number of Options Weighted- Average Exercise Price Beginning Balance 50,000 $ 0.10 Granted Exercised Forfeited Ending Balance 50,000 $ 0.10 The following table summarizes information about the Company s options outstanding and exercisable: Options Outstanding Options Outstanding Weighted-Average Weighted-Average Exercise Price Options Outstanding Remaining Contractual Life Exercise Price Options Exercisable at Dec. 31, 2013 Remaining Contractual Life Exercise Price $ 0.10 50,000 7.50 $ 0.10 10,000 7.50 $ 0.10 There are no family relationships between Mr. Armoudian and any current or former Company executive officer or director. Except for the salary to be paid to Mr. Armoudian and the option grant described above, there have been no previous transactions between Mr. Armoudian and the Company and/or any of its current or former affiliates in which Mr. Armoudian had a direct or indirect interest. F-12 Exhibit Index Incorporated by Reference Exhibit No. Exhibit Description Form SEC File No. Exhibit Filing Date Filed Herewith 3.1(a) Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Encompass Energy Services, Inc. 8-K 000-53499 3.1.2 04/19/2011 3.1(b) Certificate of Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation of Encompass Energy Services, Inc. 8-K 000-53499 3.1 12/05/2011 3.2 Amended and Restated By-Laws of Encompass Energy Services, Inc. 8-K 000-53499 3.1 12/14/2010 10.1 Agreement dated March 5, 2009, between Standard Registrar Transfer Company, Inc. and Encompass Energy Services, Inc. N-2/A 333-153083 (k) 03/18/2009 10.2 Waiver dated July 18, 2011, by Encompass Energy Services, Inc. in favor of New Dominion, LLC 8-K 000-53499 99.1 07/22/2011 14.1 Code of Ethics for Encompass Energy Services, Inc. N-2/A 333-153083 (r) 05/11/2009 31.1 Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer X 31.2 Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer X 32.1 Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350 X 32.2 Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350 X ________________ * Encompass Energy Services, Inc. was previously known both as New Source Energy Group, Inc. and as Ametrine Capital, Inc. 
