 UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K (Mark One) For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 OR TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 For the transition period from ______ to ______ Commission file number: 333-150925-03 ATLAS RESOURCES PUBLIC #18-2008 (A) L.P. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 26-2202544 (State or other jurisdiction or incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) Park Place Corporate Center One 1000 Commerce Drive, Suite 400 Pittsburgh, PA 15275 (Address of principal executive offices) Zip code Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (412) 489-0006 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Title of each class Name of each exchange on which registered None None Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act: Common Units representing Limited Partnership Interests (Title of Class) Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes No Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of large accelerated filer , accelerated filer and small reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes No DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: None ATLAS RESOURCES PUBLIC #18-2008 (A) L.P. INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS Page PART I °Item 1: Business 4 °Item 2: Properties 13 °Item 3: Legal Proceedings 15 °Item 4: Mine Safety Disclosures (Not Applicable) 15 PART II °Item 5: Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Unitholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 16 °Item 7: Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 17 °Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 24 °Item 9: Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 44 °Item 9A: Controls and Procedures 44 PART III °Item 10: Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 45 °Item 11: Executive Compensation 46 °Item 12: Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Unitholder Matters 46 °Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 46 °Item 14: Principal Accountant Fees and Services 47 PART IV °Item 15: Exhibits 48 SIGNATURES 49 2 GLOSSARY OF TERMS Bbl. One stock tank barrel or 42 United States gallons liquid volume. Developed acres . Acres spaced or assigned to productive wells. Development well . A well drilled within a proved area of an oil or gas reservoir to the depth of a stratigraphic horizon known to be productive. Dry hole or well . A well found to be incapable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities such that proceeds from the sale of such production would exceed production expenses and taxes. FASB . Financial Accounting Standards Board. Field . An area consisting of a single reservoir or multiple reservoirs all grouped on or related to the same individual geological structural feature and/or stratigraphic condition. There may be two or more reservoirs in a field that are separated vertically by intervening impervious strata, or laterally by local geologic barriers, or by both. Reservoirs that are associated by being in overlapping or adjacent fields may be treated as a single or common operational field. The geological terms structural feature and stratigraphic condition are intended to identify localized geological features as opposed to the broader terms of basins, trends, provinces, plays, areas-of-interest, etc. GAAP . Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Gross acres or gross wells . The total acres or wells, as the case may be, in which a working interest is owned. MBbl. One thousand barrels of oil or other liquid hydrocarbons. Mcf . One thousand cubic feet. Mcfe . One thousand cubic feet equivalent, determined using the ratio of six Mcf of gas to one Bbl of oil, condensate or natural gas liquids. MGP. Managing General Partner Net acres or net wells . The sum of the fractional working interests owned in gross acres or gross wells, as the case may be. NGL . Natural gas liquids, which are the hydrocarbon liquids contained within gas. NYMEX . The New York Mercantile Exchange. Oil . Crude oil and condensate. Productive well . A well that is found to be capable of producing hydrocarbons in sufficient quantities such that proceeds from the sale of such production exceeds production expenses and taxes. Proved developed reserves . Reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well. Proved reserves . Proved oil and gas reserves are those quantities of oil and gas that by analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can be estimated with reasonable certainty to be economically producible from a given date forward, from known reservoirs, and under existing economic conditions, operating methods and government regulations prior to the time at which contracts providing the right to operate expire, unless evidence indicates that renewal is reasonably certain, regardless of whether deterministic or probabilistic methods are used for the estimation. The project to extract the hydrocarbons must have commenced or the operator must be reasonably certain that it will commence the project within a reasonable time. PV-10 . Present value of future net revenues. See the definition of standardized measure . Reserves. Reserves are estimated remaining quantities of oil and gas and related substances anticipated to be economically producible, as of a given date, by application of development projects to known accumulations. In addition, there must exist, or there must be a reasonable expectation that there will exist, the legal right to produce or a revenue interest in the production, installed means of delivering oil and gas or related substances to market, and all permits and financing required to implement the project. Reservoir . A porous and permeable underground formation containing a natural accumulation of economically productive oil and/or gas that is confined by impermeable rock or water barriers and is individual and separate from other reserves. SEC . Securities Exchange Commission. Standardized Measure . Standardized measure, or standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows relating to proved oil and gas reserve quantities, is the present value of estimated future net revenues to be generated from the production of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (using prices and costs in effect as of the date of estimation) without giving effect to non-property related expenses such as general and administrative expenses, debt service or to depreciation, depletion and amortization and discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. Standardized measure differs from PV-10 because standardized measure includes the effect of future income taxes. Working interest . The operating interest that gives the owner the right to drill, produce and conduct operating activities on the property and a share of production. 3 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS The matters discussed within this report include forward-looking statements. These statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as anticipate, believe, continue, could, estimate, expect, intend, may, might, plan, potential, predict, should, or will, or the negative thereof or other variations thereon or comparable terminology. In particular, statements about our expectations, beliefs, plans, objectives, assumptions or future events or performance co ntained in this report are forward-looking statements. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations, assumptions, estimates, and projections. While we believe these expectations, assumptions, estimates, and projections are reasonable, such forward-looking statements are only predictions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control. These and other important factors may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. PART I. °Item 1: BUSINESS Overview Atlas Resources Public #18-2008 (A) L.P. ( we, us , or the Partnership ) is a Delaware limited partnership and was formed on April 8, 2008 with Atlas Resources, LLC serving as its Managing General Partner and Operator ( Atlas Resources or the MGP ). Atlas Resources is an indirect subsidiary of Atlas Resource Partners, L.P. ( ARP ) (NYSE:ARP). ARP is a publicly traded master limited partnership and an independent developer and producer of natural gas, crude oil, and natural gas liquids, with operations in basins across the United States. ARP is a leading sponsor and manager of tax-advantaged investment partnerships, in which it co-invests, to finance a portion of its natural gas and oil production activities. We have drilled and currently operate wells located in Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Michigan, Indiana, West Virginia and Ohio. We have no employees and rely on our MGP for management, which in turn, relies on its ultimate Parent Company, Atlas Energy L.P., formerly known as Atlas Pipeline Holdings, L.P. ( Atlas Energy ) (NYSE: ATLS) for administrative services. (See Item 11 Executive Compensation ). In March 2012, Atlas Energy contributed to ARP, substantially all of Atlas Energy s natural gas and oil development and production assets and it partnership management business, including ownership of our MGP. On February 17, 2011, Atlas Energy L.P., a then-majority owned subsidiary of Atlas Energy, Inc. and parent of the general partner of Atlas Pipeline Partners, L.P.( APL )(NYSE: APL), completed an acquisition of assets from Atlas Energy, Inc., which included its investment partnership business; its oil and gas exploration, development, and production activities conducted in Tennessee, Indiana, and Colorado, certain shallow wells and leases in New York and Ohio, and certain well interests in Penns ylvania and Michigan: and its ownership and management of investments in Lightfoot Capital Partners, L.P. and related entities (the Transferred Business ). After formation, we received total cash subscriptions from investors of $201,242,800 , which were paid to our MGP acting as operator and general drilling contractor under our drilling and operating agreement. Our MGP contributed leases, tangible equipment, and paid all syndication and offering costs for a total capital contribution of $43,219,400. We have drilled 223 development wells within the Clinton/Medina, Upper Devonian Sandstones, Southern Appalachia Shale, Marcellus Shale, Antrim Shale, and New Albany Shale geological formations in Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Michigan, Indiana, West Virginia, and Ohio. Business Strategy We do not plan to sell any of our wells and will continue to produce them until they are depleted or become uneconomical to produce, at which time they will be plugged and abandoned or sold. No other wells will be drilled and no additional funds will be required for drilling (See Item 2 Properties for information concerning our wells). The MGP continues to manage our exposure to commodity price risk. To limit our exposure to changing commodity prices and enhance and stabilize our cash flow, our MGP uses financial hedges for a portion of our natural gas and oil production. Principally, the MGP uses fixed price swaps and puts on our behalf as the mechanism for the financial hedging of our commodity prices. Our operating cash flows are generated from our wells, which produce natural gas and oil. Our produced natural gas and oil is then delivered to market through third-party gas gathering systems. The majority of our natural gas and oil is delivered into the Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC ( Laurel Mountain ) gas gathering system. Laurel Mountain owns and operates all of APL s previously owned Northern Appalachian assets. Our MGP entered into gas gathering agreements with Laurel Mountain, whereby they pay to Laurel Mountain a gathering fee based on a range, generally from $0.35 per Mcf to the amount of the competitive gathering fee which is currently defined as 16% of the gross sales price received for our gas. 4 Our ongoing operating and maintenance costs have been and are expected to be fulfilled through revenues from the sale of our natural gas and oil production. We pay our MGP a monthly well supervision fee of $975 per well per month for the Marcellus Shale wells and $1,500 per well per month for New Albany Shale wells. For all other wells a fee of $392 is charged per well per month as outlined in our drilling and operating agreement. This well supervision fee covers all normal and regularly recurring operating expenses for the production and sale of natural gas and oil such as: Well tending, routing maintenance and adjustment; Reading meters, recording production, pumping, maintaining appropriate books and records; and Preparation of reports for us and government agencies. The well supervision fees, however, do not include costs and expenses related to the purchase of certain equipment and materials and brine disposal. If these expenses are incurred, we pay the costs for third-party services, materials, and a reasonable charge for services performed directly by our MGP or its a ffiliates. Also, beginning one year after each of our wells has been placed into production, our MGP, as operator, may retain $200 per month per well to cover the estimated future plugging and abandonment cost of the well. As of December 31, 2013 our MGP had not withheld any funds for this purpose. The MGP is currently evaluating its right to exercise this option based on several factors such as commodity prices, the natural decline in well production, and current future plugging services and costs. Gas and Oil Production Production Volumes The following table presents our total net natural gas, oil and natural gas liquids production volumes for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012: Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Production: (1) Natural gas (Mcf) 1,450,766 1,701,940 Oil (Bbl) 1,764 4,467 Natural gas liquids (Bbl) 1,432 6,357 Total (Mcfe) 1,469,942 1,766,884 (1) Production quantities consist of the sum of our proportionate share of production from wells in which we have a direct interest, based on our proportionate net revenue interest in such wells. Production Revenues, Prices and Costs The MGP markets the majority of our natural gas production to gas marketers directly or to third party plant operators who process and market the gas. The sales price of natural gas produced is a function of the market in the area and typically tied to a regional index. The pricing indices for the Appalachian Basin are Dominion South Point, Tennessee Gas Pipeline and Transco Leidy Line. 5 The following table presents our production revenues and average sales prices for our natural gas, oil and natural gas liquids production for the years ended December 31, 2013, and 2012, along with our average production costs in each of the reported periods: Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Production revenues (in thousands): Natural gas revenue $ 5,526 $ 4,877 Oil revenue 153 396 Natural gas liquids revenue 60 391 Total revenues $ 5,739 $ 5,664 Average sales price: (1) Natural gas (per Mcf) (2) $ 4.21 $ 3.50 Oil (per Bbl) $ 66.50 $ 88.65 Natural gas liquids (per Bbl) $ 41.37 $ 61.58 Production costs (per Mcfe) $ 2.39 $ 2.22 (1) Average sales prices represent accrual basis pricing after reversing the effect of previously recognized gains resulting from prior period impairment charges. (2) Average gas prices are calculated by including in total revenue derivative gains previously recognized into income in connection with prior period impairment charges and dividing by the total volume for the period. Previously recognized derivative gains were $576,000 and $1,082,200 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Drilling Activity We received total cash subscriptions from investors of $201,242,800, which were paid to our MGP acting as operator and general drilling contractor under our drilling and operating agreement. Our MGP contributed leases, tangible equipment, and paid all syndication and offering costs for a total capital contribution of $43,219,400. We have drilled 223 development wells within the Clinton/Medina, Upper Devonian Sandstones, Southern Appalachia Shale, Marcellus Shale, Antrim Shale, and New Alban y Shale geological formations in Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Michigan, Indiana, West Virginia, and Ohio. We do not plan to sell any of our wells and will continue to produce them until they are depleted or become uneconomical to produce, at which time they will be plugged and abandoned or sold. No other wells will be drilled and no additional funds will be required for drilling. The following table summarizes the number of gross and net wells drilled by the Partnership: Gross Net Gas wells drilled 221.00 182.55 Dry hole 2.00 1.25 Total wells drilled 223.00 183.80 Contractual Revenue Arrangements Natural gas . The MGP markets the majority of our natural gas production to gas utility companies, gas marketers, local distribution companies and industrial or other end-users. The sales price of natural gas produced is a function of the market in the area and typica lly tied to a regional index. We do not hold firm transportation obligations on any pipeline that requires payment of transportation fees regardless of natural gas production volumes. As is customary in certain of our other operating areas, we occasionally commit a predictable portion of monthly production to the purchaser in order to maintain a gathering agreement. Crude oil. Crude oil produced from our wells flows directly into leasehold storage tanks where it is picked up by an oil company or a common carrier acting for an oil compa ny. The crude oil is typically sold at the prevailing spot market price for each region, less appropriate trucking charges. We do not have delivery commitments for fixed and determinable quantities of crude oil in any future periods under existing contracts or agreements. 6 Natural gas liquids. NGL s are extracted from the natural gas stream by processing and fractionation plants enabling the remaining dry gas (low BTU content) to meet pipeline specifications for transport to end users or marketers operati ng on the receiving pipeline. The resulting dry natural gas is sold as described above and our NGLs are generally priced using the Mont Belvieu (TX) regional processing hub. The cost to process and fractionate the NGLs from the gas stream is typically either a volumetric fee for the gas and liquids processed or a volumetric retention by the processing and fractionation facility. We do not have delivery commitments for fixed and determinable quantities of NGLs in any future periods under existing contracts or agreements. Natural Gas and Oil Hedging The MGP provides greater stability in our cash flows through its use of financial hedges. The financial hedges may include purchases of regulated NYMEX futures and options contracts and non-regulated over-the-counter futures and options contracts with qualified counterparties. Financial hedges are contracts between ourselves and counterparties and do not require physical delivery of hydrocarbons. Financial hedges allow us to mitigate hydrocarbon price risk, and ca sh is settled to the extent there is a price difference between the hedge price and the actual NYMEX settlement price. Settlement typically occurs on a monthly basis, at the time in the future dictated within the hedge contract. Financial hedges executed in accordance with the MGP s secured credit facility do not require cash margin and are secured by our natural gas and oil properties. To assure that the financial instruments will be used solely for hedging price risks and not for speculative purposes, the MGP has a management committee to assure that all financial trading is done in compliance with its hedging policies and procedures. The MGP does not intend to contract for positions that we cannot offset with actual production. Natural Gas Gathering Agreements Virtually all natural gas produced is gathered through one or more pipeline systems before sale or delivery to an end user, a marketer, or an interstate pipeline. A gathering fee can be charged for each gathering activity that is utilized and by each separate gatherer providing the service. Fees will vary depending on the distance the gas travels and whether additional services such as compression, blending, or contaminant removal are provided. In Appalachia, our MGP s two primary gathering agreements are with Laurel Mountain Midstream, LLC ( Laurel Mountain ). Under the gathering agreements, we dedicate our natural gas production in certain areas within the Appalachian Basin to Laurel Mountain for transportation to interstate pipeline systems, loca l distribution companies, and/or end users in the area, subject to certain exceptions. In return, Laurel Mountain is required to accept and transport our dedicated natural gas in the Appalachian Basin subject to certain conditions. Markets and Competition The availability of a ready market for natural gas, oil and NGL s and the price obtained depends upon numerous factors beyond our control. Product availability and price are the principal means of competition in selling natural gas, oil, and NGLs. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, our MGP did not experience problems in selling our natural gas, oil, and NGLs, although prices have varied significantly during those periods. While it is impossible to accurately determine our competitive posit ion in the industry, we do not consider our operations to be a significant factor in the industry. Seasonal Nature of Business Generally, but not always, the demand for natural gas decreases during the summer months and increases during the winter months. Seasonal anomalies such as mild winters or hot summers sometimes lessen this fluctuation. In addition, certain natural gas users utilize natural gas storage facilities and purchase some of their anticipated winter requirements during the summer. This can also lessen seasonal demand fluctuations. In addition, seasonal weather conditions and lease stipulations can limit our producing activities and other operations in certain areas of the Appalachian region and Michigan/Indiana. These seasonal anomalies may pose challenges and increase competition for equipment, supplies and personnel, which could lead to shortages and increase costs or delay our operations. Environmental Matters and Regulation Overview. Our operations are subject to comprehensive and stringent federal, state and local laws and regulations governing, among other things, where and how we drill wells, how we handle waste from our operations and the discharge of materials into the environment. Our operations will be subject to the same environmental laws and regulations as other companies in the natural gas and oil industry. Among other requirements and restrictions, these laws and regulations may: require the acquisition of various permits before drilling commences; 7 require the installation of expensive pollution control equipment and water treatment facilities; restrict the types, quantities and concentration of various substances that can be released into the environment in connection with drilling, completion and production activities; limit or prohibit drilling activities on certain land; require remedial measures to reduce, mitigate and/or respond to releases of pollutants or hazardous substances from existing and former operations, such as pit closure and plugging of abandoned wells; impose substantial liabilities for pollution resulting from our operations; and with respect to operations affecting federal lands or leases, require preparation of a Resource Management Plan, an Environmental Assessment, and/or an Environmental Impact Statement. These laws, rules and regulations may also restrict the rate of natural gas and oil production below the rate that would otherwise be possible. The regulatory burden on the natural gas and oil industry increases the cost of doing business in the industry and consequently affects profitability. Additionally, Congress and federal and state agencies frequently enact new, and revise existing, environmental laws and regulations, and any new laws or changes to existing laws that result in more stringent an d costly waste handling, disposal and clean-up requirements for the natural gas and oil industry could have a significant impact on our operating costs. We believe that our operations substantially comply with all currently applicable environmental laws and regulations and that our continued compliance with existing requirements will not have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and results of operations. However, we cannot predict how environmental laws and regulations that may take effect in the future may impact our properties or operations. For the three-year period ended December 31, 2013, we did not incur any material capital expenditures for installation of remediation or pollution control equipment at any of our facilities. We are not aware of any environmental issues or claims that will require material capital expenditures during 2014, or that will otherwise have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. Environmental laws and regulations that could have a material impact on the natural gas and oil exploration and production industry include the following: National Environmental Policy Act. Natural gas and oil exploration and production activities on federal lands are subject to the National Environmental P olicy Act ( NEPA ). NEPA requires federal agencies, including the Department of Interior, to evaluate major federal agency actions having the potential to significantly impact the environment. In the course of such evaluations, an agency will typically require an Environmental Assessment to assess the potential direct, indirect and cumulative impacts of a proposed project and, if necessary, will prepare a more detailed Environmental Impact Statement that will be made available for public review and comment. All of our proposed exploration and production activities on federal lands require governmental permits, many of which are subject to the requirements of NEPA. This process has the potential to delay the development of natural gas and oil projects. Waste Handling. The Solid Waste Disposal Act, including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act ( RCRA ) and comparable state statutes regulate the generation, transportation, treatment, storage, disposal and cleanup of hazardous wastes and the disposal of non-hazardous wastes. Under the auspices of the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ), individual states administer some or all of the provisions of RCRA, sometimes in conjunction with their own more stringent requirements. Drilling fluids, produced waters, and most of the other wastes associated with the exploration, development, and production of crude oil and natural gas constitute solid wastes , which are regulated under the less stringent non-hazardous waste provisions, but there is no guarantee that the EPA or individual states will not adopt more stringent requirements for the handling of non-hazardous wastes or categorize some non-hazardous wastes as hazardous for future regulation. We believe that our operations are currently in substantial compliance with the requirements of RCRA and related state and local laws and regulations, and that we hold all necessary and up-to-date permits, registrations and other authorizations to the extent that our operations require them under such laws and regu lations. Although we do not believe the current costs of managing our wastes to be significant, any more stringent regulation of natural gas and oil exploitation and production wastes could increase our costs to manage and dispose of such wastes. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act. The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act ( CERCLA ), also known as the Superfund law, imposes joint and several liability, without regard to fault or legality of conduct, on persons who are considered under the statute to be responsible for the release of a hazardous substance into the environment. These persons include the owner or operator of the site where the release occurred and companies that disposed or arranged for the disposal of the hazardous substance at the site. Under CERCLA, such persons may be liable for the costs of cleaning up the hazardous substances that have been released into the environment, for damages to natural resources and for the costs of certain health studies. In addition, it is not uncommon for neighboring landowners and other third parties to file claims for personal injury and property damage allegedly caused by the hazardous substances released into the environment. 8 Our operations are, in many cases, conducted at properties that have been used for natural gas and oil exploitation and production for many years. Although we believe we utilized operating and waste disposal practices that were standard in the industry at the time, haza rdous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons may have been released on or under the properties owned or leased by us or on or under other locations, including off-site locations, where such substances have been taken for disposal. In addition, some of these properties have been operated by third parties or by previous owners or operators whose treatment and disposal of hazardous substances, wastes or hydrocarbons was not under our control. These properties, and the substances disposed or released on them, may be subject to CERCLA, RCRA and analogous state laws. Under such laws, we could be required to remove previously disposed substances and wastes, remediate contaminated property or perform remedial plugging or pit closure operations to prevent future contamination. Water Discharges. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, and analogous state laws impose restrictions and strict controls on the discharge of pollutants, including produced waters and other natural gas and oil wa stes, into navigable waters of the United States. The discharge of pollutants into regulated waters is prohibited, except in accordance with the terms of a permit issued by EPA or the relevant state. These permits may require pretreatment of produced waters before discharge. Compliance with such permits and requirements may be costly. Further, much of our natural gas extraction activity utilizes a process called hydraulic fracturing, which results in water discharges that must be treated and disposed of in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. The Clean Water Act also prohibits the discharge of dredge and fill material in regulated waters, including wetlands, unless authorized by a permit issued by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The Clean Water Act also requires specified facilities to maintain and implement spill prevention, control and countermeasure plans and to take measures to minimize the risks of petroleum spills. Federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil a nd criminal penalties for failure to obtain or non-compliance with discharge permits or other requirements of the federal Clean Water Act and analogous state laws and regulations. We believe our operations are in substantial compliance with the requirements of the Clean Water Act. Air Emissions. The Clean Air Act, and associated state laws and regulations, regulate emissions of various air pollutants through permits and other requirements. In addition, the EPA has developed, and continues to develop, string ent regulations governing emissions of toxic and other air pollutants at specified sources. In 2012, specific federal regulations applicable to the natural gas industry were finalized under the New Source Performance Standards ( NSPS ) program along with National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants ( NESHAP ). These new regulations impose additional emissions control requirements and practices on our operations. Some of our new facilities may be required to obtain permits before work can begin, and existing facilities may be required to incur capital costs in order to comply with new emission limitations. These regulations may increase the costs of compliance for some facilities, and federal and state regulatory agencies can impose administrative, civil and criminal penalties for non-compliance. These laws and regulations also apply to entities that use natural gas as fuel, and may increase the costs of compliance of our customers to the point where demand for natural gas is affected. We believe that our operations are in substantial compliance with the requirements of the Clean Air Act. OSHA and other regulations. We are subject to the requirements of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Act ( OSHA ) and comparable state statutes. The OSHA hazard communication standard, the EPA community right-to-know regulations under Title III of CERCLA and similar state statutes require that we organize and/or disclose information about hazardous materials used or produced in our operations. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with these applicable requirements and with other OSHA and comparable requirements. Greenhouse gas regulation and climate change. Natural gas contains methane, which is considered to be a greenhouse gas. Additionally, th e burning of natural gas produces carbon dioxide, which is also a greenhouse gas. Published studies have suggested that the emission of greenhouse gases may be contributing to global warming. To date, legislative and regulatory initiatives relating to greenhouse gas emissions have not had a material impact on our business. However, Congress has been actively considering climate change legislation. More directly, the EPA has begun regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the federal Clean Air Act. In response to the Supreme Court s decision in Massachusetts V. EPA, 549 U.S. 497 (2007) (holding that greenhouse gases are air pollutants covered by the Clean Air Act), the EPA made a final determination that greenhouse gases endangered public health and welfare, 74 Fed. Reg. 66,496 (December 15, 2009). This finding led to the regulation of greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act. Currently, the EPA has promulgated two rules that will impact our business. First, the EPA promulgated the so-called Tailoring Rule which established emission thresholds for greenhouse gases under the Clean Air Act permitting programs, 75 Fed. Reg. 31514 (June 3, 2010). Both the federal preconstruction review program ( Prevention of Significant Deterioration or PSD ) and the operating permit program ( Title V ) are now implicated by emissions of greenhouse gases. These programs, as modified by the Tailoring Rule, could require some new facilities to obtain a PSD permit depending on the size of the new facilities. In addition, existing facilities as well as new facilities that exceed the emissions thresholds could be required to obtain Title V operating permits. 9 Second, the EPA finalized its Mandatory Reporting of Greenhouse Gases rule in 2009, 74 Fed. Reg. 56,260 (October 30, 2009). Subsequent revisions, additions, and clarification rules were promulgated, including a rule specifically addressing the natural gas industry. These rules require certain industry sectors that emit greenhouse gases above a specified threshold to report greenho use gas emissions to the EPA on an annual basis. The natural gas industry is covered by the rule and requires annual greenhouse gas emissions to be reported by March 31 of each year for the emissions during the preceding calendar year. This rule imposes additional obligations on us to determine whether the greenhouse gas reporting applies and if so, to calculate and report greenhouse gas emissions. There are also ongoing legislative and regulatory efforts to encourage the use of cleaner energy technologies. While natural gas is a fossil fuel, it is considered to be more benign, from a greenhouse gas standpoint, than other carbon-based fuels, such as coal or oil. Thus future regulatory developments could have a positive impact on our business to the extent th at they either decrease the demand for other carbon-based fuels or position natural gas as a favored fuel. In addition to domestic regulatory developments, the United States is a participant in multi-national discussion intended to deal with the greenhouse gas issue on a global basis. To date, those discussions have not resulted in the imposition of any specific regulatory system, but such talks are continuing and may result in treaties or other multi-national agreements that could have an impact on our bus iness. Finally, as noted above, the scientific community continues to engage in a healthy debate as to the impact of greenhouse gas emissions on planetary conditions. For example, such emissions may be responsible for increasing global temperatures, and/or enhancing the frequency and severity of storms, flooding and other similar adverse weather conditions. We do not believe that these conditions are having any material current adverse impact on our business, and we are unable to predict at this time, what, if any, long-term impact such climate effects would have. Other regulation of the natural gas and oil industry. The natural gas and oil industry is extensively regulated by numerous federal, state and local authorities. Legislation affecting the natural g as and oil industry is under constant review for amendment or expansion, frequently increasing the regulatory burden. Also, numerous departments and agencies, both federal and state, are authorized by statute to issue rules and regulations binding on the natural gas and oil industry and its individual members, some of which carry substantial penalties for failure to comply. Although the regulatory burden on the natural gas and oil industry increases our cost of doing business and, consequently, affects our profitability, these burdens generally do not affect us any differently or to any greater or lesser extent than they affect other companies in their industries with similar types, quantities and locations of production. Legislation continues to be introduced in Congress and development of regulations continues in the Department of Homeland Security and other agencies concerning the security of industrial facilities, including natural gas and oil facilities. Our operations may be subject to such laws and reg ulations. Presently, it is not possible to accurately estimate the costs we could incur to comply with any such facility security laws or regulations, but such expenditures could be substantial. Energy Policy Act of 2005. Much of our natural gas extraction activity utilizes a process called hydraulic fracturing. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 amended the definition of underground injection in the Federal Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974 ( SDWA ). This amendment effectively excluded hydraulic fracturing for oil, gas, or geothermal activities from the SDWA permitting requirements, except when diesel fuels are used in the hydraulic fracturing operations. Recently, this subject has received much regulatory and legislative attention at both the federal and state level and we anticipate that the permitting and compliance requirements applicable to hydraulic fracturing activity are likely to become more stringent and could have a material adverse impact on ARP s business and operations. For instance, the U.S. EPA published a draft Permitting Guidance for Oil and Gas Hydraulic Fracturing Activities Using Diesel Fuels ( Draft Diesel Guidance ) on May 10, 2012 for public comment through August 23, 2012. In that Draft Diesel Guidance, the EPA asserts SDWA permitting authority over hydraulic fracturing activities that employ the injection of diesel fuel. The EPA submitted its draft guidance to the White House Office of Management and Budget in September 2013. The draft guidance submitted to the White House Office of Management and Budget was not published by the EPA, so it is not clear what changes may have been made to the guidance by the EPA as a result of the comments received during the 2012 public comment period. The EPA has not provided a specific timeframe for the release of the final guidance. The U.S. Senate and House of Representatives considered legislative bills in the 111 th and 112 th Sessions of Congress that, if enacted, would have repealed the SDWA permitting exemption for hydraulic fracturing activities. Titled the Fracturing Responsibility and Awareness of Chemicals Act (or Frac Act ), the legislative bills as proposed could have potentially led to significant oversight of hydraulic fracturing activities by federal and state agencies. In 2013, the Frac Act was re-introduced in the 113 th Session of Congress. If enacted into law, the legislation as proposed could potentially result in significant regulatory oversight, which may include additional permitting, monitoring, recording, and recordkeeping requirements for us. 10 We believe our operations are in substantial compliance with existing SDWA requirements. However, future compliance with the SDWA could result in additional requirements and costs due to the possibility that new or amended laws, regulations, or policies could be implemented or enacted in the future. Hydrogen Sulfide. Exposure to gas containing high levels of hydrogen sulfide, referred to as sour gas, is harmful to humans and can result in death. We conduct our natural gas extraction activitie s in certain formations where hydrogen sulfide may be, or is known to be, present. We employ numerous safety precautions at our operations to ensure the safety of its employees. There are various federal and state environmental and safety requirements for handling sour gas, and we believe we are in substantial compliance with all such requirements. Drilling and Production. Our operations are subject to various types of regulation at the federal, state and local levels. These types of regulation include requ iring permits for the drilling of wells, drilling bonds and reports concerning operations. Most states, and some counties and municipalities, in which we will operate also regulate one or more of the following: the location of wells; the manner in which water necessary to develop wells is accessed, utilized, managed and disposed of; the method of drilling, completing and casing and producing wells; the surface use and restoration of properties upon which wells are drilled; the plugging and abandoning of wells; and notice to surface owners and other third parties. State laws regulate the size and shape of drilling and spacing units or proration units governing the pooling of natural gas and oil properties. Some states allow forced pooling or integration of tracts to facilitate exploitation while other states rely on voluntary pooling of lands and leases. In some instances, forced pooling or unitization may be implemented by third parties and may reduce our interest in the unitized properties. In addition, st ate conservation laws establish maximum rates of production from natural gas and oil wells, generally prohibit the venting or flaring of natural gas and impose requirements regarding the ratability of production. These laws and regulations may limit the amount of natural gas and oil we can produce from its wells or limit the number of wells or the locations at which we can drill. Moreover, each state generally imposes a production or severance tax or impact fee with respect to the production and sale of oil, natural gas and natural gas liquids within its jurisdiction. State Regulation and Taxation of Drilling. The various states regulate the drilling for, and the production, gathering and sale of, natural gas, including imposing severance taxes and requireme nts for obtaining drilling permits. For example, Pennsylvania has imposed an impact fee on wells drilled into an unconventional formation, which includes the Marcellus Shale. The impact fee, which changes from year to year, is based on the average annual price of natural gas as determined by the NYMEX price, as reported by the Wall Street Journal for the last trading day of each calendar month. For example, based upon natural gas prices for 2013, the impact fee for qualifying unconventional horizontal wells spudded during 2013 was $50,000 per well, while the impact fee for unconventional vertical wells was $10,000 per well. The payment structure for the impact fee makes the fee due the year after an unconventional well is spudded, and the fee will continue for 15 years for an unconventional horizontal well and 10 years for an unconventional vertical well. States also regulate the method of developing new fields, the spacing and operation of wells and the prevention of waste of natural gas resources. States may regulate rates of production and may establish maximum limits on daily production allowable from natural gas wells based on market demand or resource conservation, or both. States do not regulate wellhead prices or engage in other similar direct economic regulation, but there can be no assurance that they will not do so in the future. The effect of these regulations may be to limit the amounts of natural gas that may be produced from our wells, the type of wells that may be drilled in the future in proximity to existing wells and to limit the number of wells or locations from which we can drill. Texas imposes a 7.5% tax on the market value of natural gas sold, 4.6% on the market value of condensate and a fee of $0.000667 per Mcf of gas produced and $.00625 per barrel of crude. New Mexico imposes a severance tax of up to 3.75% of the value of oil and gas produced, a conservation tax equal to 0.19% of the oil and gas sold, and a school emergency tax of up to 3.15% for oil and 4% for gas. Alabama imposes a production tax of up to 2% on oil or gas and a privilege tax of up to 8% of oil or gas. Oklahoma imposes a gross production tax of 7% per Bbl of oil, 7% per Mcf of natural gas and a petroleum excise tax of $0.095 on the gross production of oil and gas. The petroleum industry is also subject to compliance with various other federal, state and local regulations and laws. Some of those laws relate to occupational safety, resource conservation and equal employment opportunity. We do not believe that compliance w ith these laws will have a material adverse effect upon our unitholders. 11 Oil Spills and Hydraulic Fracturing . The Oil Pollution Act of 1990, as amended, ( OPA ), contains numerous requirements relating to the prevention of and response to oil spills into w aters of the United States. The OPA subjects owners of facilities to strict, joint and several liability for all containment and cleanup costs and certain other damages arising from a spill, including, but not limited to, the costs of responding to a release of oil to surface waters. While we believe we have been in compliance with OPA, noncompliance could result in varying civil and criminal penalties and liabilities. A number of federal agencies, including but not limited to the EPA and the Department of Interior, are currently evaluating a variety of environmental issues related to hydraulic fracturing. For example, the EPA is conducting a study that evaluates any potential impacts of hydraulic fracturing on drinking water and ground water. The EPA releas ed a progress report on this study on December 21, 2012 that did not present any conclusions, but notes that results will be released in draft form in late 2014 for review by the public and the EPA Science Advisory Board. The Department of Interior s Bureau of Land Management published a revised proposed rule to regulate hydraulic fracturing on federal and Indian lands on May 24, 2013, and a final rule is expected to be issued in 2014. In addition, state, local conservancy districts and river basin commissions have all previously exercised their various regulatory powers to curtail and, in some cases, place moratoriums on hydraulic fracturing. State regulations include express inclusion of hydraulic fracturing into existing regulations covering other aspects of exploration and production and specifically may include, but not be limited to, the following: requirement that logs and pressure test results are included in disclosures to state authorities; disclosure of hydraulic fracturing fluids and chemicals, and the ratios of same used in operations; specific disposal regimens for hydraulic fracturing fluids; replacement/remediation of contaminated water assets; and minimum depth of hydraulic fracturing. Local regulations, which may be preempted by state and federal regulations, have included, but have not been limited to, the following which may extend to all operations including those beyond hydraulic fracturing: noise control ordinances; traffic control ordinances; limitations on the hours of operations; and mandatory reporting of accidents, spills and pressure test failures. Employees We do not directly employ any of the persons responsible for our management or operation. In general, personnel employed by Atlas Energy manage and operate our business. Some of the officers of our general partner may spend a substantial amount of time managing the business and affairs of Atlas Energy and its affiliates other than us and may face a conflict regarding the allocation of their time between our business and affair s and their other business interests. Available Information We make our periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K, and any amendments to those reports, available through our MGP s website at www.atlasresourcepartners.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). To view these reports, click on Investment Programs , then Drilling Program SEC Filings and finally the respective program of your inquiry. You may also receive, without charge, a paper copy of any such filings by request to us at Park Place Corporate Center One, 1000 Commerce Drive, Suite 400, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15275, telephone number (800) 251-0171. A complete list of our filings is available on the SEC s website at www.sec.gov. Any of our filings are also available at the Securities and Exchange Commission s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Room 1580, Washington, D.C. 20549. The Public Reference Room may be contacted at telephone number (800) 732-0330 for further information. 12 °Item 2: PROPERTIES Natural Gas, Oil and NGL Reserves The following tables summarize information regarding our estimated proved natural gas and oil reserves as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. Proved reserves are the estimated quantities of crude oil, natural gas, and natural gas liquids which geological and engineering data demonstrate with reasonable certainty to b e recoverable in future years from known reservoirs under existing economic and operating conditions, i.e., prices and costs as of the date the estimate is made. Prices include consideration of changes in existing prices provided only by contractual arrangements, but not on escalations based upon future conditions. All of the reserves are located in the United States. We base these estimated proved natural gas, oil and NGL reserves and future net revenues of natural gas, oil and NGL reserves upon reports prepared by Wright Company, Inc., an independent third-party reserve engineer. We have adjusted these estimates to reflect the settlement of asset retirement obligations on gas, oil and NGL properties. A summary of the reserve report related to our estimated proved reserves at December 31, 2013 is included as Exhibit 99.1 to this report. In accordance with SEC guidelines, we make the standardized measure estimates of future net cash flows from proved reserves using natural gas and oil sales prices in effect as of the dates of the estimates which are held constant throughout the life of the properties. Our estimates of proved reserves are calculated on the basis of the unweighted adjusted average of the first-day-of-the-month price for each month during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012: December 31, 2013 2012 Natural gas (per Mcf) $ 3.67 $ 2.76 Oil (per Bbl) $ 96.78 $ 94.71 Natural gas liquids (per Bbl) $ 30.10 $ 31.97 Reserve estimates are imprecise and may change as additional information becomes available. Furthermore, estimates of natural gas , oil and NGL reserves are projections based on engineering data. There are uncertainties inherent in the interpretation of this data as well as the projection of future rates of production and the timing of development expenditures. Reservoir engineering is a subjective process of estimating underground accumulations of natural gas, oil and NGL that cannot be measured in an exact way and the accuracy of any reserve estimate is a function of the quality of available data and of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. The preparation of our natural gas, oil and NGL reserve estimates was completed in accordance with our MGP s prescribed internal control procedures by its reserve engineers. For the periods presented, Wright and Company, Inc., was retained to prepare a report of proved reserves. The reserve information includes natural gas and oil reserves which are all located in the United States. The independent reserves engineer s evaluation was based on more than 37 years of experience in the estimation of and evaluation of petroleum reserves, specified economic parameters, operating conditions, and government regulations. Our MGP s internal control procedures include verification of input data delivered to our third-party reserve specialist, as well as a multi-functional management review. The preparation of reserve estimates was overseen by our MGP s Senior Reserve Engineer, who is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and has more than 15 years of natural gas and oil industry experience. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by our MGP s senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by our MGP s Chief Operating Officer and President. Results of drilling, testing, and production subsequent to the date of the estimate may justify revision of these estimates. Future prices received from the sale of natural gas, oil and NGL may be different from those estimated by Wright Company, Inc. in preparing its reports. The amounts and timing of future operating and development costs may also differ from those used. Accordingly, the reserves set forth in the following tables ultimately may not be produced. You should not construe the estimated standardized measure values as representative of the current or future fair market value of our proved natural gas and oil properties. Standardized measure values are based upon projected cash inflows, which do not provide for changes in natural gas, oil and NGL prices or for the escalation of expenses and capital costs. The meaningfulness of these estimates depends upon the accuracy of the assumptions upon which they were based. 13 We evaluate natural gas reserves at constant temperature and pressure. A change in either of these factors can affect the measurement of natural gas reserves. We deduct operating costs, development costs, and production-related and ad valorem taxes in arriving at the estimated future cash flows. We base the estimates on operatin g methods and conditions prevailing as of the dates indicated. Proved developed reserves are reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods: Proved Reserves at December 31, 2013 2012 Proved reserves: Natural gas reserves (Mcf) 11,020,300 10,176,600 Oil reserves (Bbl) 34,000 36,800 Natural gas liquids (Bbl) 95,200 106,700 Total proved developed reserves (Mcfe) 11,795,500 11,037,600 Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows (1) $ 10,834,000 $ 7,716,600 Standardized measure of discounted future cash flows per Limited Partner Unit ( 2 ) $ 389 $ 276 Undiscounted future cash flows per Limited Partner Unit $ 676 $ 466 (1) Standardized measure is the present value of estimated future net revenues to be generated from the production of proved reserves, determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the SEC without giving effect to non-property related expenses, such as general and administrative expenses, interest and income tax expenses, or to depletion, depreciation and amortization. The future cash flows are discounted using an annual discount rate of 10%. Standardized measure does not give effect to commodity derivative contracts. Because we are a limited partnership, no provision for federal or state income taxes has been included in the December 31, 2013 and 2012 calculations of standardized measure, which is, therefore, the same as the PV-10 value. (2) This value per limited partner unit is determined by following the methodology used for determining our proved reserves using the data discussed above. However, this value does not necessarily reflect the fair market value of a unit, and each unit is illiquid. Also, the value of the unit for purposes of presentment of the unit to our MGP for purchase is different, because it is calculated under a formula set forth in the Partnership Agreement. Productive Wells Productive wells consist of producing wells and wells capable of production, including natural gas wells awaiting pipeline connections to commence deliveries and oil wells awaiting connection to production facilities. Gross wells are the total number of producing wells in which we have an interest an d net wells are the sum of our fractional working interests in gross wells. The following table sets forth information regarding productive natural gas and oil wells in which we have a working interest as of December 31, 2013: Number of productive wells Gross Net Gas wells 201.00 164.43 Developed Acreage The following table sets forth information about our developed natural gas acreage as of December 31, 2013: Developed acreage Gross Net Pennsylvania 3,859.54 3,229.90 Indiana 1,760.00 1,476.80 Tennessee 1,098.05 986.93 West Virginia 235.07 153.47 Ohio 12.27 1.78 Total 6,964.93 5,848.88 14 The leases for our developed acreage generally have terms that extend for the life of the wells. We believe that we hold good and indefeasible title to our producing properties, in accordance with standards generally accepted in the natural gas industry, subject to exceptions stated in the opinions of counsel employed by us in the various areas in which we conduct our activities. We do not believe that these exceptions detract substantially from our use of any property. As is customary in the natural gas in dustry, we conduct only a perfunctory title examination at the time we acquire a property. Before we commence drilling operations, we conduct an extensive title examination and we perform curative work on defects that we deem significant. We or our predecessors have obtained title examinations for substantially all of our managed producing properties. No single property represents a material portion of our holdings. Our properties are subject to royalty, overriding royalty and other outstanding interests customary in the industry. Our properties are also subject to burdens such as liens incident to operating agreements, taxes, development obligations under natural gas and oil leases, farm-out arrangements and other encumbrances, easements and restrictions. We do not believe that any of these burdens will materially interfere with our use of our properties. °Item 3: LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of our business. Management believes that none of these actions, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. (See °Item 8: Note 9 of Commitments and Contingencies ). °Item 4: MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES (Not applicable) 15 PART II °Item 5: MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED UNITHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES There is no established public trading market for our units and we do not anticipate that a market for our units will develop. Our units may be transferred only in accordance with the provisions of Article VI of our Partnership Agreement which requires: our MGP consent; the transfer not result in materially adverse tax consequences to us and; the transfer does not violate federal or state securities laws. An assignee of a unit may become a substituted partner only upon meeting the following conditions: the assignor gives the assignee the right; our MGP consents to the substitution the assignee pays to us all costs and expenses incurred in connection with the substitution; and the assignee executes and delivers the instruments, which our MGP requires to effect the substitution and to confirm his or her agreement to be bound by the term of our partnership agreement. A substitute partner is entitled to all of the rights of full ownership of the assigned units, including the right to vote. As of December 31, 2013 we had 4,476 limited partners. Our MGP reviews our accounts monthly to determine whether cash distributions are appropriate and the amount to be distributed, if any. We distribute those funds which our MGP determines are not necessary for us to retain. We will not advance or borrow funds for purposes of making distributions. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, we distributed the following: Distributions 2013 2012 Limited Partners $ 2,081,800 $ 3,863,400 Managing General Partner 88,900 85,900 Total distributions $ 2,170,700 $ 3,949,300 16 °Item 7: MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The discussion and analysis presented below provides information to assist in understanding our financial condition and results of operations. This discussion should be read in conjunction with ( Item 8: Financial Statements and Supplement ary Data ), which contains our financial statements. The following discussion may contain forward-looking statements that reflect our plans, estimates, and beliefs. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date the statements were made. The matters discussed in these forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those made, projected, or implied in the forward-looking statements. We believe the assumptions underlying the financial statements are reason able. However, our financial statements included herein may not necessarily reflect our results of operations, financial position, and cash flows in the future. BUSINESS OVERVIEW Atlas Resources Public #18-2008 (A) L.P. ( we , us , or the Partnership ) is a Delaware limited partnership and formed on April 8, 2008 with Atlas Resources, LLC serving as its managing general partner and operator ( Atlas Resources or MGP ). Atlas Resources is an indirect subsidiary of Atlas Resources Partners, L.P. ( ARP ) (NYSE: ARP). We have drilled and currently operate wells located in Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Michigan, Indiana, West Virginia and Ohio . We have no employees and rely on our MGP for management, which in turn, relies on its ultimate parent company, Atlas Energy ( Atlas Energy ) (NYSE: ATLS) for administrative services. The following discussion provides information to assist in understanding our financial condition and results of operations. Our operating cash flows are generated from our wells, which primarily produce natural gas, but also some oil. Our produced natural gas and oil is then delivered to market through affiliated or third-party gas gathering systems. Our ongoing operating and maintenance costs have been and are expected to be fulfilled through revenues from the sale of our natural gas and oil production. We pay our MGP, as operator, a monthly well supervision fee, which covers all normal and regularly recurring operating expenses for the production and sale of natural gas and oil such as: Well tending, routine maintenance and adjustment; Reading meters, recording production, pumping, maintaining appropriate books and records; and Preparation of reports for us and government agencies. The well supervision fees, however, do not include costs and expenses related to the purchase of certain equipment, materials, and brine disposal. If these expenses are incurred, we pay cost for third-party services, materials, and a competitive charge for service performed directly by our MGP or its affiliates. Also, beginning one year after each of our wells has been placed into production, our MGP, as operator, may retain $200 per month, per well, to cover the estimated future plugging and abandonment costs of the well. As of December 31, 2013 our MGP had not withheld any funds for this purpose. The MGP is currently evaluating its right to exercise this option based on several factors such as commodity prices, the natural decline in well production, and current future plugging services and costs. MARKETS AND COMPETITION The availability of a ready market for natural gas and oil produced by us, and the price obtained, depends on numerous factors beyond our control, including the extent of domestic production, imports of foreign natural gas and oil, political instability or terrorist acts in oil and gas producing countries and regions, market demand, competition from other energy sources, the effect of federal regulation on the sale of natural gas and oil in interstate commerce, other governmental regulation of th e production and transportation of natural gas and oil and the proximity, availability and capacity of pipelines and other required facilities. Our MGP is responsible for selling our production. During 2013 and 2012, we experienced no problems in selling our natural gas and oil. Product availability and price are the principal means of competing in selling natural gas and oil production. While it is impossible to accurately determine our comparative position in the industry, we do not consider our operations to be a significant factor in the industry. Natural Gas . We market the majority of our natural gas production to gas marketers directly or to third party plant operators who process and market our gas. The sales price of natural gas produced is a function of the market in the area and typically tied to a regional index. The production area and pricing indices for the Appalachian Basin are Dominion South Point, Tennessee Gas Pipeline and Transco Leidy Line. 17 We do not hold firm transportation obligations on any pipeline that requires payment of transportation fees regardless of natural gas production volumes. As is customary in certain of our other operating areas, we occasionally commit a predictable portion of monthly production to the purchaser in order to maintain a gathering agreement. Crude Oil. Crude oil produced from our wells flows directly into leasehold storage tanks where it is picked up by an oil company or a common carrier acting for an oil company. The crude oil is typically sold at th e prevailing spot market price for each region, less appropriate trucking charges. We do not have delivery commitments for fixed and determinable quantities of crude oil in any future periods under existing contracts or agreements. Natural gas liquids. NG L s are extracted from the natural gas stream by processing and fractionation plants enabling the remaining dry gas (low BTU content) to meet pipeline specifications for transport to end users or marketers operating on the receiving pipeline. The resulting dry natural gas is sold as described above and our NGLs are generally priced using the Mont Belvieu (TX) regional processing hub. The cost to process and fractionate the NGLs from the gas stream is typically either a volumetric fee for the gas and liquids processed or a volumetric retention by the processing and fractionation facility. We do not have delivery commitments for fixed and determinable quantities of NGLs in any future periods under existing contracts or agreements. For the year ended December 31, 2013, Chevron Natural Gas and Atmos Energy Marketing, LLC accounted for approximately 71% and 16% of our total natural gas production revenues, with no other single customer accounting for more than 10% for this period. GENERAL TRENDS AND OUTLOOK We expect our business to be affected by the following key trends. Our expectations are based on assumptions made by us and information currently available to us. To the extent our underlying assumptions about or interpretations of available information prove to be incorrect, our actual results may vary materially from our expected results. The areas in which we operate are experiencing a significant increase in natural gas, oil and NGL production related to new and increased drilling for deeper natural gas formations and the implementation of new exploration and production techniques, including horizontal and multiple fracturing techniques. The increase in the supply of natural gas, oil, and NGL has put a downward pressure on domestic natural gas prices. W hile we anticipate continued high levels of exploration and production activities over the long-term in the areas in which we operate, fluctuations in energy prices can greatly affect production rates and investments by third parties in the development of new natural gas reserves. Our future production, cash flow, and our ability to make distributions to our unitholders, including the MGP, depend on our success in producing our current reserves efficiently. We face the challenge of natural production declines and volatile natural gas and oil prices. As initial reservoir pressures are depleted, natural gas production from particular wells decreases. 18 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS GAS AND OIL PRODUCTION: The following table sets forth information related to our prod uction revenues, volumes, sales prices, production costs and depletion during the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Production revenues (in thousands): Gas $ 5,526 $ 4,877 Oil 153 396 Liquids 60 391 Total $ 5,739 $ 5,664 Production volumes: Gas (mcf/day) 3,975 4,650 Oil (bbls/day) 5 12 Liquids (bbls/day) 4 17 Total (mcfe/day) 4,029 4,824 Average sales price: (1) Gas (per mcf) (2) $ 4.21 $ 3.50 Oil (per bbl) $ 86.91 $ 88.65 Liquids (per bbl) $ 41.37 $ 61.58 Production costs: As a percent of revenues 61 % 69 % Per mcfe $ 2.39 $ 2.22 Depletion per mcfe $ 2.06 $ 1.90 (1) Average sales prices represent accrual basis pricing after reversing the effect of previously recognized gains resulting from prior period impairment charges. (2) Average gas prices are calculated by including in total revenue derivative gains previously recognized into income in connection with prior period impairment charges and dividing by the total volume for the period. Previously recognized derivative gains were $576,000 and $1,082,200 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Natural Gas Revenues . Our natural gas revenues were $ 5,526,200 and $4,876,600 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, an increase of $649,600 (13%). The $649,600 increase in natural gas revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the prior year period was attributable to $1,369,300 increase in natural gas prices after the effect of financial hedges, which were driven by market conditions, partially offset by a $719,700 decrease in production volumes. Our production volumes decreased to 3,975 mcf per day for the year ended December 31, 2013 from 4,650 mcf per day for the year ended December 31, 2012, a decrease of 675 (15%) mcf per day. The price we receive for our natural gas is primarily a result of the index driven agreements (See Item 1 Business-Contractual Revenue Arrangements ). Thus, the price we receive for our natural gas may vary significantly each month as the underlying index changes in response to market conditions. The decrease in production volume is mostly due to the normal decline inherent in the life of the wells. Oil Revenues . We drill wells primarily to produce natural gas, rather than oil, but some wells have limited oil production. Our oil revenues were $153,300 and $395,900 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, a decrease of $242,600 (61%). The $242,600 decrease in oil revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the prior year was attributable to a $3,100 decrease in oil prices after the effect of financial hedges and a $239,600 decrease in production volumes. Our production volumes decreased to 5 bbls per day for the year ended December 31, 2013 from 12 bbls per day for the year ended December 31, 2012, a decrease of 7 bbl per day (58%). Natural Gas Liquids Revenue . The majority of our wells produce dry gas , which is composed primarily of methane and requires no additional processing before being transported and sold to the purchaser. Some wells, however, produce wet gas , which contains larger amounts of ethane and other associated hydrocarbons (i.e. natural gas liquids ) that must be removed prior to transporting the gas. Once removed, these natural gas liquids are sold to various purchasers. Our natural gas liquids revenues were $59,300 and $391,500 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, a decrease of $332,200 (85%). The $332,200 decrease in liquid revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the prior year period was attributable to a $303,300 decrease in production volumes, and a $28,900 decrease in liquid prices. Our production volumes decreased to 4 bbls per day for the year ended December 31, 2013 from 17 bbls per day for the year ended December 31, 2012, a decrease of 13 (76%) bbls per day. 19 Costs and Expenses. Production expenses were $ 3,509,700 and $3,913,900 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, a decrease of $404,200 (10%). This decrease was due to a combination of a decrease in supervision fees, processing plant fees and road and location fees. Depletion of our oil and gas properties as a percentage of oil and gas revenues was 53 % and 59% for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. These percentage changes were directly attributable to changes in revenues, oil and gas reserve quantities, product prices, production volumes and changes in the cost basis of oil and gas properties. General and administrative expenses were $201, 600 and $217,500 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, a decrease of $15,800 (7%). These expenses include third-party costs for services as well as the monthly administrative fees charged by our MGP and vary from period to period due to the costs and services provided to us. There was no impairment of oil and gas properties for the year ended December 31, 2013. Impairments of oil and gas properties for the year ended December 31, 2012 were $457,300. Annually, we compare the carrying value of our proved developed oil and gas producing properties to their estimated fair market value. To the extent our carrying value exceeds the estimated fair market value, an impairment charge is recognized. As a result of this assessment, an impairment charge was recognized for the year ended December 31, 2012. This charge is based on reserve quantities, future market prices and our carrying value. We cannot provide any assurance that similar charges may or may not be taken in future periods. Sale of Oil and Gas Properties. On December 30, 2013, the Partnership sold its oil and gas properties with a net book value of $1,341,200 in the Antrim Shale geological formation mostly located in Michigan for $1,003,800. Cash proceeds from the sale will be distributed to the partnership unit holders in accordance with the terms of the partnership agreement. As a result of the sale, $9,663,200 of oil and gas properties, $8,069,600 of accumulated depletion and impairment, and $252,400 of asset retirement obligations were removed from the partnership accounts resulting in a net loss of $337,400. Liquidity and Capital Resources . Cash provided by operating activities decreased $1,211, 800 for the year ended December 31, 2013 to $2,730,600 as compared to $3,942,400 for the year ended December 31, 2012. This decrease was due to a decrease in the change in accounts receivable-affiliate of $1,465,700 and a decrease in a non-cash loss (gain) on derivative value of $499,400 and a decrease in accrued liabilities of $164,000, partially offset by a loss on sale of oil and gas properties of $337,400, an increase in the change in accounts payable trade-affiliate of $422,500, and the change in accrued liabilities of $258,500 and an increase in net earnings before depletion, impairment, and accretion of $157,400, for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. Cash used in investing activities was $435,700 for year ended December 31, 2013, representing the net of $15,100 in proceeds from the sale of tangible equipment and $450,800 for the purchase of tangible equipment. Cash used in investing activities was $28,100 for year ended December 31, 2012, re presenting the net of $54,100 in proceeds from the sale of tangible equipment and $82,200 for the purchase of tangible equipment. Cash used in financing activities de creased $1,778,600 to $2,170,700 for the year ended December 31, 2013, from $3,949,300 for the year ended December 31, 2012. This decrease was due to a decrease in cash distributions to partners. Our MGP may withhold funds for future plugging and abandonment costs. The MGP is currently evaluating its right to exercise this option based on several factors such as commodity prices, the natural decline in well production, and current future plugging services and costs. Through December 31, 2013, our MGP had not withheld any funds for this purpose. Any additional funds, if required, will be obtain ed from production revenues or borrowings from our MGP or its affiliates, which are not contractually committed to make loans to us. The amount that we may borrow may not at any time exceed 5% of our total subscriptions, and we will not borrow from third-parties. We are generally limited to the amount of funds generated by the cash flow from our operations, which we believe is adequate to fund future operation and distributions to our partners. Historically, there has been no need to borrow funds from our MGP to fund operations. Asset Impairment There was no impairment of oil and gas properties during the year ended December 31, 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized $457,300 of asset impairment related to gas and oil properties. This impairment related to the carrying amount of our gas and oil properties being in excess of our estimate of their fair value at December 31, 2012. The estimate of fair value of these gas and oil properties was impacted by, among other factors, the deterioration of natural gas prices. 20 ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION Our operations are subject to federal, state and local laws and regulations governing the release of regulated materials into the environment or otherwise relating to environmental protection or human health or safety (see Item 1: Business Environmental Matters and Regulations ). We believe that our operations and facilities are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental laws and regulations. Any failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the assessment of administrative, civil, or criminal penalties, imposition of remedial requirements, issuance of injunctions affecting our operations, or other measures. We have ongoing environmental compliance programs. However, risks of accidental leaks or spills are associated with our operations. There can be no assurance that we will not incur significant costs and liabilities relating to claims for damages to property, the environment, natural resources, or persons resulting from the operation of our business. Moreover, it is possible other developments, such as increasingly strict environmental laws and regulations and enforcement policies, could result in increased costs and liabilities to us. Environmental laws and regulations have changed substantially and rapidly over the last 25 years, and we anticipate that there will be continuing changes. Trends in environmental regulation include increased reporting obligations and placing more restrictions and limitations on activities, such as emissions of greenhouse gases and other pollut ants, generation and disposal of wastes, including wastes that may have naturally occurring radioactivity, and use, storage and handling of chemical substances that may impact human health, the environment and/or endangered species. Other increasingly stringent environmental restrictions and limitations have resulted in increased operating costs for us and other similar businesses throughout the United States. It is possible that the costs of compliance with environmental laws and regulations may continue to increase. We will attempt to anticipate future regulatory requirements that might be imposed and to plan accordingly, but there can be no assurance that we will identify and properly anticipate each such change, or that our efforts will prevent material costs, if any, from rising. CHANGES IN PRICES AND INFLATION Our revenues and the value of our assets have been and will continue to be affected by changes in natural gas and oil market prices. Natural gas and oil prices are subject to significant fluctuations that are beyond our ability to control or predict. Inflation affects the operating expenses of our operations. Inflationary trends may occur if commodity prices were to increase, since such an increase may cause the demand for energy equipment and services to increase, thereby increasing the costs of acquiring or obtaining such equipment and services. While we anticipate that inflation will affect our future operating costs, we cannot predict the timing or amounts of any such effects. SECURED HEDGE FACILITY The MGP has a secured hedge facility agreement with a syndicate of banks under which the Partnership has the ability to enter into derivative contracts to manage its exposure to commodity price movements. Under the MGP s revolving credit facility the Partnership is required to utilize this secured hedge facility for future commodity risk management activity. The Partnership s obligations under the facility are secured by mortgages on its oil and gas properties and first priority security interests in substantially all of its assets and by a guarantee of the MGP. The MGP administers the commodity price risk management activity for the Partnership under the secured hedge facility. The secured hedge facility agreement contains covenants that limit the Partnership s ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, make loans or investments, make distributions if a default under the secured hedge facility agreement exists or would result from the distribution, merge into or consolidate with other persons, enter into commodity or interest rate swap agreements that do not conform to specified terms or that exceed specified amounts, or engage in certain asset dispositions including a sale of all or substantially all of its assets. As of December 31, 2013 only the Partnership s natural gas swaps are included in the secured hedge facility. In addition, it will be an event of default under the MGP s revolving credit facility if it, as our general partner, breaches an obligation governed by the secured hedge facility and the effect of such breach is to cause amounts owing under swap agreements governed by the secured hedge facility to become immediately due and payable. 21 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires making estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of actual revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Although we base our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, actual results may di ffer from the estimates on which our financial statements are prepared at any given point of time. Changes in these estimates could materially affect our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Significant items that are subject to such estimates and assumptions include revenue and expense accruals, depletion and amortization, asset impairment, fair value of derivative instruments, and the probability of forecasted transactions. We summarize our significant accounting policies within our financial statements included in ( Item 8: Financial Statements ) included in this report. The critical accounting policies and estimates we have identified are discussed below. Depletion and Impairment of Long-Lived Assets Long-Lived Assets. The cost of natural gas and oil properties, less estimated salvage value, is generally depleted on the units-of-production method. Natural gas and oil properties are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. A long-lived asset is considered to be impaired when the undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset are less than its carrying amount. The undiscounted net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset are based upon our estimates that rely on various assumptions, including natural gas and oil prices, production and operating expenses. Any significant variance in these assumptions could materially affect the estimated net cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. As discussed in General Trends and Outlook within this section, recent increases in natural gas drilling have driven an increase in the supply of natural gas and put a downward pressure on domestic prices. Further declines in natural gas prices may result in additional impairment charges in future periods. There was no impairment of oil and gas properties during the year ended December 31, 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2012, we recognized $457,300 of asset impairment within natural gas and oil properties. The impairment relates to the carrying amount of these gas and oil properties being in excess of our estimate of their fair value at December 31, 2012. There was no impairment recognized during the year ended December 31, 2013. The estimate of fair value of these gas and oil properties was impacted by, among other factors, the deterioration of natural gas prices at the date of measurement. Events or changes in circumstances that would indicate the need for impairment testing include, among other factors: operating losses; unused capacity; market value declines; technological developments resulting in obsolescence; changes in demand for products manufactured by others utilizing our services or for our prod ucts; changes in competition and competitive practices; uncertainties associated with the United States and world economies; changes in the expected level of environmental capital, operating or remediation expenditures; and changes in governmental regulations or actions. Fair Value of Financial Instruments We have established a hierarchy to measure our financial instruments at fair value which requires us to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. The hierarchy defines three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical, unrestricted assets and liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to access at the measurement date. Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset and liability or can be corroborated with observable market data for substantially the entire contractual term of the asset or liability. Level 3 Unobservable inputs that reflect the entity s own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in the pricing of the asset or liability and are consequently not based on market activity but rather through particular valuation techniques. We use a fair value methodology to value the assets and liabilities for our outstanding derivative contracts. Our commodity hedges are calculated based on observable market data related to the change in price of the underlying commodity and are therefore defined as Level 2 fair value measurements. 22 Liabilities that are required to be measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis include our asset retirement obligations ( ARO ) that are defined as Level 3. Estimates of the fair value of ARO s are based on discounted cash flows using numerous estimates, assumptions, and judgments regarding the cost, timing of settlement, our MGP s credit-adjusted risk-free rate and inflation rates. Reserve Estimates Our estimates of proved natural gas and oil reserves and future net revenues from them are based upon reserve analyses that rely upon various assumptions, including those required by the SEC, as to natural gas and oil prices, drilling and operating expenses, capital expenditures and availability of funds. The accuracy of these reserve estimates is a function of many factors including the following: the quality and quantity of available data, the interpretation of that data, the accuracy of various mandated economic assumptions, and the judgments of the individuals preparing the estimates. We engaged Wright and Company, Inc., an independent third-party reserve engineer, to prepare a report of our proved reserves (see Item 2: Properties ). Any significant variance in the assumptions utilized in the calculation of our reserve estimates could materially affect the estimated quantity of our reserves. As a result, our estimates of proved natural gas and oil reserves are inherently imprecise. Actual future production, natural gas, and oil prices, revenues, development expenditures, operating expenses and quantities of recoverable natural gas and oil reserve s may vary substantially from our estimates or estimates contained in the reserve reports and may affect our ability to pay distributions. In addition, our proved reserves may be subject to downward or upward revision based upon production history, prevailing natural gas, and oil prices, mechanical difficulties, governmental regulation, and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Our reserves and their relation to estimated future net cash flows impact the calculation of impairment and depletion of oil and gas properties. Generally, an increase or decrease in reserves without a corresponding change in capitalized costs will have a corresponding inverse impact to depletion expense. Asset Retirement Obligations We recognize and estimate the liability for the plugging and abandonment of our gas and oil wells. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long lived asset. The estimated liability is based on our historical experience in plugging and abandoning wells, estimated remaining lives of those wells based on reserve estimates, external estimates as to the cost to plug and abandon the wells in the future and federal and state regulatory requirements. The liability is discounted using our MGP s assumed credit-adjusted risk-free interest rate. Revisions to the liability could occur due to changes in estimates of plugging and abandonment costs or remaining lives of the we lls, or if federal or state regulators enact new plugging and abandonment requirements. We have no assets legally restricted for purposes of settling asset retirement obligations. Except for our gas and oil properties, we believe that there are no other material retirement obligations associated with tangible long lived assets. Working Interest Our Partnership Agreement establishes that revenues and expenses will be allocated to our MGP and limited partners based on their ratio of capital contributions to total contributions ( working interest ). Our MGP is also provided an additional working interest of 10% as provided in the Partnership Agreement. Due to the time necessary to complete drilling operations and accumulate all drilling costs, estimated worki ng interest percentage ownership rates are utilized to allocate revenues and expense until the wells are completely drilled and turned on-line into production. Once the wells are completed, the final working interest ownership of the partners is determined and any previously allocated revenues based on the estimated working interest percentage ownership are adjusted to conform to the final working interest percentage ownership. 23 °Item 8: FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Partners of Atlas Resources Public #18-2008 (A) L.P. We have audited the accompanying balance sheets of Atlas Resources Public #18-2008 (A) L.P. (a Delaware limited partnership) (the Partnership ) as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related statements of operations, comprehensive loss, changes in partners capital, and cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2013. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Partnership s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. We were not engaged to perform an audit of the Partnership s internal control over financial reporting. Our audits included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Partnership s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Atlas Resources Public #18-2008 (A) L.P. as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31, 2013 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. /s/ GRANT THORNTON LLP Cleveland, Ohio March 31, 2014 24 ATLAS RESOURCES PUBLIC #18-2008 (A) L.P. BALANCE SHEETS DECEMBER 31, 2013 2012 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 467,600 $ 343,400 Accounts receivable trade affiliate 1,173,800 1,055,600 Proceeds from sale of properties receivable-affiliate 1,003,800 - Accounts receivable monetized gains-affiliate 57,900 549,900 Current portion of derivative assets - 167,800 Total current assets 2,703,100 2,116,700 Oil and gas properties, net 21,520,300 26,058,100 Long-term derivative assets 78,400 141,600 $ 24,301,800 $ 28,316,400 LIABILITIES AND PARTNERS CAPITAL Current liabilities: Accrued liabilities $ 41,200 $ 216,900 Accounts payable trade-affiliate 422,500 - Short-term derivative liabilities 46,800 - Total current liabilities 510,500 216,900 Asset retirement obligations 2,572,500 3,014,300 Long-term put premiums payable-affiliate 71,300 30,900 Commitments and contingencies - - Partners capital: Managing general partner s interest 1,515,400 1,677,500 Limited partners interest (20,152.50 units) 19,716,300 23,225,200 Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (84,200 ) 151,600 Total partners capital 21,147,500 25,054,300 $ 24,301,800 $ 28,316,400 See accompanying notes to financial statements. 25 ATLAS RESOURCES PUBLIC #18-2008 (A) L.P. STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 AND 2012 2013 2012 REVENUES Natural gas, oil and liquids $ 5,738,800 $ 5,664,000 Interest 100 200 Total revenues 5,738,900 5,664,200 COST AND EXPENSES Production 3,509,700 3,913,900 Depletion 3,026,500 3,364,500 Loss on sale of oil and gas properties 337,400 - Asset impairment - 457,300 Accretion of asset retirement obligation 164,000 149,000 General and administrative 201,600 217,500 Total costs and expenses 7,239,200 8,102,200 Net loss $ (1,500,300 ) $ (2,438,000 ) Allocation of net income (loss): Managing general partner $ 188,800 $ 87,300 Limited partners $ (1,689,100 ) $ (2,525,300 ) Net loss per limited partnership unit $ (84 ) $ (125 ) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 26 ATLAS RESOURCES PUBLIC #18-2008 (A) L.P. STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 AND 2012 2013 2012 Net loss $ (1,500,300 ) $ (2,438,000 ) Other comprehensive loss: Unrealized holding (loss) gain on cash flow hedging contracts (75,500 ) 108,900 Difference in estimated hedge gains receivable (90,800 ) 185,300 Reclassification adjustment for gains realized in net loss from cash flow hedges (69,500 ) (223,300 ) Total other comprehensive (loss) income (235,800 ) 70,900 Comprehensive loss $ (1,736,100 ) $ (2,367,100 ) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 27 ATLAS RESOURCES PUBLIC #18-2008 (A) L.P. STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN PARTNERS CAPITAL YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 AND 2012 Managing General Partner Limited Partners Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Total Balance at December 31, 2011 $ 1,647,600 $ 29,642,400 $ 80,700 $ 31,370,700 Participation in revenue and costs and expenses: Net production revenues 509,700 1,240,400 - 1,750,100 Interest 100 100 - 200 Depletion (294,400 ) (3,070,100 ) - (3,364,500 ) Asset impairment (26,600 ) (430,700 ) - (457,300 ) Accretion of asset retirement obligation (41,300 ) (107,700 ) - (149,000 ) General and administrative (60,200 ) (157,300 ) - (217,500 ) Net income (loss) 87,300 (2,525,300 ) - (2,438,000 ) Other comprehensive income - - 70,900 70,900 Subordination 28,500 (28,500 ) - - Distributions to partners (85,900 ) (3,863,400 ) - (3,949,300 ) Balance at December 31, 2012 $ 1,677,500 $ 23,225,200 $ 151,600 $ 25,054,300 Participation in revenue and costs and expenses: Net production revenues 610,300 1,618,800 - 2,229,100 Interest income - 100 - 100 Loss on sale of oil and gas properties (12,500 ) (324,900 ) - (337,400 ) Depletion (307,800 ) (2,718,700 ) - (3,026,500 ) Accretion of asset retirement obligation (45,500 ) (118,500 ) - (164,000 ) General and administrative (55,700 ) (145,900 ) - (201,600 ) Net income (loss) 188,800 (1,689,100 ) - (1,500,300 ) Other comprehensive loss - - (235,800 ) (235,800 ) Subordination (262,000 ) 262,000 - - Distributions to partners (88,900 ) (2,081,800 ) - (2,170,700 ) Balance at December 31, 2013 $ 1,515,400 $ 19,716,300 $ (84,200 ) $ 21,147,500 See accompanying notes to financial statements. 28 ATLAS RESOURCES PUBLIC #18-2008 (A) L.P. STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 AND 2012 2013 2012 Cash flows from operating activities: Net loss $ (1,500,300 ) $ (2,438,000 ) Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by operating activities: Depletion 3,026,500 3,364,500 Asset impairment - 457,300 Non-cash loss on derivative value, net 574,400 1,073,800 Accretion of asset retirement obligation 164,000 149,000 Loss on sale of assets 337,400 - Changes in operating assets and liabilities: (Increase) decrease in accounts receivable trade-affiliate (118,200 ) 1,347,500 Decrease in accrued liabilities (175,700 ) (11,700 ) Increase in accounts payable-affiliate 422,500 - Net cash provided by operating activities 2,730,600 3,942,400 Cash flows from investing activities: Purchase of tangible equipment (450,800 ) (82,200 ) Proceeds from sale of tangible equipment 15,100 54,100 Net cash used in by investing activities (435,700 ) (28,100 ) Cash flows from financing activities: Distributions to partners (2,170,700 ) (3,949,300 ) Net cash used in financing activities (2,170,700 ) (3,949,300 ) Net change in cash and cash equivalents 124,200 (35,000 ) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 343,400 378,400 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period $ 467,600 $ 343,400 Supplemental schedule of non-cash investing and financing activities: Sales proceeds receivable $ 1,003,800 $ - Asset retirement obligation revision $ (353,400 ) $ (58,300 ) See accompanying notes to financial statements. 29 ATLAS RESOURCES PUBLIC #18-2008 (A) L.P. NOTES TO CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS DECEMBER 31, 2013 AND 2012 NOTE 1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION Atlas Resources Public #18-2008 (A) L.P. (the Partnership ) is a Delaware limited partnership, formed on April 8, 2008 with Atlas Resources, LLC serving as its Managing General Partner and Operator ( Atlas Resources or the MGP ). Atlas Resources is an indirect subsidiary of Atlas Resources Partners ( ARP ) (NYSE: ARP). In March 2012, the MGP s ultimate parent, Atlas Energy L.P. ( Atlas Energy ) (NYSE: ATLS), contributed to ARP, a newly-formed exploration and production master limited partnership, substantially all of Atlas Energy s natural gas and oil development and production assets and its partnership management busi ness, including ownership of the MGP. On February 17, 2011, Atlas Energy L.P., formerly known as Atlas Pipeline Holdings, L.P. ( Atlas Energy ) (NYSE: ATLS), a then-majority owned subsidiary of Atlas Energy, Inc. and parent of the general partner of Atlas Pipeline Partners, L.P. ( APL ) (NYSE: APL), completed an acquisition of assets from Atlas Energy, Inc., which included its investment partnership business, its oil and gas exploration, development and production activities conducted in Tennessee, Indiana , and Colorado, certain shallow wells and leases in New York and Ohio, certain well interests in Pennsylvania and Michigan and its ownership and management of investments in Lightfoot Capital Partners, L.P. and related entities (the Transferred Business ). The Partnership has drilled and currently operates wells located in Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Michigan, Indiana, West Virginia and Ohio. The Partnership has no employees and relies on the MGP for management, which in turn, relies on its parent company, Atlas Energy, for administrative services. The Partnership s operating cash flows are generated from its wells, which produce natural gas and oil. Produced natural gas and oil is then delivered to market through affiliated and or third-party gas gathering systems. The Partnership does not plan to sell any of its wells and intends to produce them until they are depleted or become uneconomical to produce, at which time they will be plugged and abandoned or sold. The Partnership expects that no other wells will be drilled and no additional funds will be required for drilling. NOTE 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities that exist at the date of the Partnership s financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and costs and expenses during the reporting periods. The Partnership s financial statements are based on a number of significant estimates, including the revenue an d expense accruals, depletion, asset impairments, fair value of derivative instruments and the probability of forecasted transactions. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Cash Equivalents The carrying amounts of the Partnership s cash equivalents approximate fair values because of the short maturities of these instruments. The Partnership considers all highly liquid investments with a remaining maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents. Receivables Accounts receivable affiliate on the balance sheets consist solely of the trade accounts receivable associated with the Partnership s operations. In evaluating the realizability of its accounts receivable, the MGP performs ongoing credit evaluations of its cu stomers and adjusts credit limits based upon payment history and the customer s current creditworthiness, as determined by management s review of the credit information. The Partnership extends credit on sales on an unsecured basis to many of their customers. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Partnership had recorded no allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable on its balance sheets. 30 Oil and Gas Properties Oil and gas properties are stated at cost. Maintenance and repairs that generally do not extend the useful life of an asset for two years or more through the replacement of critical components are expensed as incurred. Major renewals and improvements that generally extend the useful life of an asset for two years or more through the replacement of critical components are capitalized. The Partnership follows the successful efforts method of accounting for oil and gas producing activities. Oil and natural gas liquids are converted to gas equivalent basis ( Mcfe ) at the rate of one barrel to six mcf of natural gas. The Partnership s depletion expense is determined on a field-by-field basis using the units-of-production method. Depletion rates for lease, well and related equipment costs are based on proved developed reserves associated with each field. Depletion rates are determined based on reserve quantity estimates and the capitalized cost of developed producing properties. Upon the sale or retirement of a complete field of a proved property, the Partnership eliminates the cost from the property accounts and the resultant gain or loss is reclassified to the Partnership s statements of operations. Upon the sale of an individual well, the Partnership credits the proceeds to accumulated depreciation and depletion within its balance sheets. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets The Partnership reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If it is determined that an asset s estimated future cash flows will not be sufficient to recover its carrying amount, an impairment charge will be recorded to reduce the carrying amount of that asset to its estimated fair value if such carrying amount exceeds the fair value. The review of the Partnership s oil and gas properties is done on a field-by-field basis by determining if the historical cost of proved properties less the applicable accumulated depletion and impairment is less than the estimated expected undiscounted future cash flows including salvage. T he expected future cash flows are estimated based on the Partnership s plans to continue to produce and develop proved reserves. Expected future cash flow from the sale of the production of reserves is calculated based on estimated future prices. The Partnership estimates prices based upon current contracts in place, adjusted for basis differentials and market related information, including published futures prices. The estimated future level of production is based on assumptions surrounding future prices and costs, field decline rates, market demand and supply and the economic and regulatory climates. If the carrying value exceeds the expected future cash flows, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference between the estimated fair market value (as determined by discounted future cash flows) and the carrying value of the assets. The determination of oil and natural gas reserve estimates is a subjective process, and the accuracy of any reserve estimate depends on the quality of available data and the application of engineering and geological interpretation and judgment. Estimates of economically recoverable reserves and future net cash flows depend on a number of variable factors and assumptions that are difficult to predict and may vary considerably from actual results. In addition, reserve estimates for wells with limited or no production history are less reliable than those based on actual production. Estimated reserves are often subject to future revisions, which could be substantial, based on the availability of additional information which could cause the assumptions to be modified. The Partnership cannot predict what reserve revisions may be required in future periods. There was no impairment of oil and gas properties during the year ended December 31, 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Partnership recognized $ 457,300 of asset impairments related to gas and oil properties. The impairment relates to the carrying amount of these gas and oil properties being in excess of the Partnership s estimate of their fair value at December 31, 2012. The estimate of the fair value of these gas and oil properties was impacted by, among other factors, the deterioration of natural gas prices at the date of measurement. Derivative Instruments The MGP enters into certain financial contracts to manage the Partnership s exposure to movement in commodity prices (see Note 6). The derivative instruments recorded in the balance sheets were measured as either an asset or liability at fair value. Changes in a derivative instrument s fair value are recognized currently in the Partnership s statements of operations unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. 31 Asset Retirement Obligations The Partnership recognizes an estimated liability for the plugging and abandonment of its gas and oil wells and related facilities (see Note 5). The Partnership recognizes a liability for its future asset retirement obligations in the current period if a reasonable estimate of the fair value of that liability can be made. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. Income Taxes The Partnership is not treated as a taxable entity for federal income tax purposes. Any item of income, gain, loss, deduction, or credit flows through to the partners as though each partner had incurred such item directly. As a result, each partner must take into account their pro rata share of all items of partnership income and deductions in computing their federal income tax liability. The Partnership evaluates tax positions taken or expected to be taken in the course of preparing the Partnership s tax returns and disallows the recognition of tax positions not deemed to meet a more-likely-than-not threshold of being sustained by the applicable tax authority. The Partnership s management does not believe it has any tax positions taken within its financial statements that would not meet this threshold. The Partnership s policy is to reflect interest and penalties related to u ncertain tax positions, when and if they become applicable. However, the Partnership has not recognized any potential interest or penalties in its financial statements as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. The Partnership files Partnership Returns of Income in the U.S. and various state jurisdictions. With few exceptions, the Partnership is no longer subject to income tax examinations by major tax authorities for years prior to 2009. The Partnership is not currently being examined by any jurisdiction and is no t aware of any potential examinations as of December 31, 2013. Environmental Matters The Partnership is subject to various federal, state, and local laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Management has established procedures for the ongoing evaluation of the Partnership s operations, to identify potential environmental exposures and to comply with regulatory policies and procedures. Environmental expenditures that relate to current operations are expensed or capitalized as ap propriate. Expenditures that relate to an existing condition caused by past operations and do not contribute to current or future revenue generation are expensed. Liabilities are recorded when environmental assessments and/or clean-ups are probable, and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The Partnership maintains insurance which may cover in whole or in part certain environmental expenditures. The Partnership had no environmental matters requiring specific disclosure or requiring the recognition of a liability for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. Concentration of Credit Risk The Partnership sells natural gas, crude oil, and NGLs under contracts to various purchasers in the normal course of business. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the Partnership had two customers that individually accounted for approximately 71% and 16%, of the Partnership s natural gas, oil, and NGL combined revenues, excluding the impact of all financial derivative activity. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Partnership had two customers that individually accounted for approximately 52% and 14%, of the Partnership s natural gas, oil, and NGL combined revenues, excluding the impact of all financial derivative activity. Financial instruments, which potentially subject the Partnership to concentrations of credit risk, consist principally of periodic temporary investments of cash and cash equivalents. The Partnership places its temporary cash investments in deposits with high-quality financial institutions. At Dec ember 31, 2013 and 2012, the Partnership had $486,300 and $365,100, respectively, in deposits at one bank of which $236,300 and $115,100, respectively, was over the insurance limit of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. No losses have been experienced on such investments. Revenue Recognition The Partnership generally sells natural gas, crude oil, and NGLs at prevailing market prices. Generally, the Partnership s sales contracts are based on pricing provisions that are tied to a market index, with certain fixed adjustments based on proximity to gathering and transmission lines and the quality of its natural gas. Generally, the market index is fixed two business days prior to the commencement of the production month. Revenue and the related accounts receivable are recognized when produced quantities are delivered to a custody transfer point, persuasive evidence of a sales arrangement exists, the rights and responsibility of ownership pass to the purchaser upon delivery, collection of revenue from the sale is reasonably assured and the sales price is fixed or determinable. Revenues from the production of natural gas, crude oil, and NGLs, in which the Partnership has an interest with other producers, are recognized on the basis of its percentage ownership of the working interest and/or overriding royalty. 32 The Partnership accrues unbilled revenue due to timing differences between the delivery of natural gas, NGLs, and crude oil and the receipt of a delivery statement. These revenues are recorded based upon volumetric data from the Partnership s records and management estimates of the related commodity sales and transportation and compression fees which ar e, in turn, based upon applicable product prices (see Use of Estimates accounting policy for further description). The Partnership had unbilled revenues at December 31, 2013 and 2012 of $878,100 and $948,000, respectively, which were included in accounts receivable trade-affiliate within the Partnership s balance sheets. Comprehensive Loss Comprehensive loss includes net loss and all other changes in the equity of a business during a period from transactions and other events and circumstances from non-owner sources that, under U.S. GAAP, have not been recognized in the calculation of net loss. These changes, other than net loss, are referred to as other comprehensive loss and for the Partnership include changes in the fair value of unsettled derivative contracts accounted for as cash flow hedges. Recently Adopted Accounting Standards In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-02, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220) ( Update 2013-02 ) . Update 2013-02 requires an entity to provide information about the amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component. In addition, an entity is required to present significant amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income if the amount reclassified to net income in its entirety is in the same reporting period as incurred. For other amounts that are not required to be reclassified in their entirety to net income, an entity is required to reference to other disclosures that provide additional detail about those amounts. Entities are required to implement the amendments prospectively for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2012, with early adoption being permitted. The Partnership adopted the requirements of Update 2013-02 upon its effective date of January 1, 2013, and it had no material impact on its financial position, results of operations or related disclosures. In January 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-01, Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Clarifying the Scope of Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities ( Update 2013-01 ). Update 2013-01 clarifies that ordinary trade receivables and payable are not in scope of ASU 2011-11, Balance Sheet (Topic 210): Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities . Specifically, ASU 2011-11 applies only to derivatives, repurchase agreements and reverse purchase agreements, and securities borrowing and securities lending transactions that are either offset in accordance with specific criteria contained in the FASB Accounting Standards Codification or subject to a master netting arrangement or similar agreement. The amendments are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after January 1, 2013 and such amendments shall be applied retrospectively for any period presented that begins before the date of application. The Partnership adopted the requirements of Update 2013-01 on December 31, 2012, and it did not have a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or related disclosures. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-04, Obligations Resulting from Joint and Several Liability Arrangements for Which the Total Amount of the Obligation is Fixed at the Reporting Date ( Update 2013-04 ). Update 2013-04 provides guidance for the recognition, measurement and disclosure of obligations resulting from joint and several liability arrangements, for which the total amount of the obligation within the scope of this guidance is fixed at the reporting date, except for obligations addressed within existing guidance in U.S. GAAP. Examples of obligations within the scope of this update include debt arrangements, other contractual obligations and settled litigation and judicial rulings. Update 2013-04 requires an entity to measure joint and several liability arrangements, for which the total amount of the obligation is fixed at the reporting date as the sum of the amount the reporting entity agreed to pay on the basis of its arrangement among its co-obligors and any additional amount the reporting entity expects to pay on behalf of its co-obligors. In addition, Update 2013-04 provides disclosure guidance on the nature and amount of the obligation as well as other information. Update 2013-04 is effective for fiscal years and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2013. The Partnership will apply the requirements of Update 2013-04 upon its effective date of January 1, 2014, and it does not anticipate it having a material impact on its financial position, results of operations or related disclosures. 33 NOTE 3 PARTICIPATION IN REVENUES AND COSTS Working Interest Our Partnership Agreement establishes that revenues and expenses will be allocated to our MGP and limited partners based on their ratio of capital contributions to total contributions ( working interest ). Our MGP is also provided an additional working interest of 10% as provided in the Partnership Agreement. Due to the time necessary to complete drilling operations and accumulate all drilling costs, estimated working interest percentage ownership rates are utilized to allocate revenues and expense until th e wells are completely drilled and turned on-line into production. Once the wells are completed, the final working interest ownership of the partners is determined and any previously allocated revenues based on the estimated working interest percentage ownership are adjusted to conform to the final working interest percentage ownership. The MGP and the limited partners will generally participate in revenues and costs in the following manner: Managing General Partner Limited Partners Organization and offering cost 100% 0% Lease costs 100% 0% Revenues (1) 28% 72% Operating costs, administrative costs, direct and all other costs (2) 28% 72% Intangible drilling costs 1% 99% Tangible equipment costs 40% 60% (1) Subject to the MGP s subordination obligation, substantially all partnership revenues will be shared in the same percentage as capital contributions are to the total partnership capital contributions, except that the MGP will receive an additional 10% of the partnership revenues. (2) These costs will be charged to the partners in the same ratio as the related production revenues are credited. NOTE 4 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT The following is a summary of natural gas and oil properties at the dates indicated: December 31, 2013 2012 Proved properties: Leasehold interests $ 2,406,800 $ 2,769,100 Wells and related equipment 213,277,500 222,496,100 Total natural gas and oil properties 215,684,300 225,265,200 Accumulated depletion and impairment (194,164,000 ) (199,207,100 ) Oil and gas properties, net $ 21,520,300 $ 26,058,100 The Partnership recorded depletion expense on natural gas and oil properties of $ 3,026,500 and $3,364,500 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Upon the sale or retirement of a complete or partial unit of a proved property, the cost is eliminated from the property accounts, and the resultant gain or loss is reclassified to accumulated depletion. Upon the sale of an entire interest where the property had been assessed for impairment, a gain or loss is recognized in the statements of operations. On December 30, 2013, the Partnership sold its oil and gas properties with a net book value of $1,341,200 in the Antrim Shale geological formation mostly located in Michigan for $1,003,800. Cash proceeds from the sale will be distributed to the partnership unit holders in accordance with the terms of the partnership agreement. As a result of the sale, $9,663,200 of oil and gas properties, $8,069,600 of accumulated depletion and impairment, and $252,400 of asset retirement obligations were removed from the partnership accounts resulting in a net loss of $337,400. There was no impairment of oil and gas properties during the year ended December 31, 2013. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Partnership recognized $457,300, of asset impairment related to oil and gas properties on its balance sheets. The impairment relates to the carrying amount of these oil and gas properties being in excess of the Partnership s estimate of their fair value at December 31, 2012. The estimate of fair value of these oil and gas properties was impacted by, among other factors, the deterioration of natural gas prices at the date of measurement. 34 NOTE 5 ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS The Partnership recognized an estimated liability for the plugging and abandonment of its oil and gas wells and related facilities. It also recognizes a liability for future asset retirement obligations if a reasonable estimate of the fair value of that liability can be made. The associated asset retirement costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long-lived asset. The estimated liability is based on the MGP s historical experience in plugging and abandoning wells, estimated remaining lives of those wells based on reserve estimates, external estimates as to the cost to plug and abandon the wells in the future and federal and state regulatory requirements. The liability is discounted using an assumed credit-adjusted risk-free interest rate. Revisions to the liability could occur due to changes in cost estimates, remaining lives of the wells or if federal or state regulators enact new plugging and abandonment requirements. The Partnership has no assets legally restricted for purposes of settling asset retirement obligations. Except for the Partnership s gas and oil properties, the Partnership determined that there were no other material retirement obligations associated with tangible long-lived assets. The MGP s historical practice and continued intention is to retain distributions from the limited partners as the wells within the Partnership near the end of their useful life. On a partnership-by-partnership basis, the MGP assesses its right to withhold amounts related to plugging and abandonm ent costs based on several factors including commodity price trends, the natural decline in the production of the wells, and current and future costs. Generally, the MGP s intention is to retain distributions from the limited partners as the fair value of the future cash flows of the limited partners interest approaches the fair value of the future plugging and abandonment cost. Upon the MGP s decision to retain all future distributions to the limited partners of the Partnership, the MGP will assume the related asset retirement obligations of the limited partners. A reconciliation of the Partnership s liability for well plugging and abandonment costs for the periods indicated is as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Asset retirement obligations, beginning of year $ 3,014,300 $ 2,923,600 Asset retirement obligation revision (353,400 ) (58,300 ) Accretion of asset retirement obligations 164,000 149,000 Liabilities settled due to sale of oil and gas properties (252,400 ) - Asset retirement obligations, end of period $ 2,572,500 $ 3,014,300 NOTE 6 DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS The MGP, on behalf of the Partnership, uses a number of different derivative instruments, principally swaps, collars and options, in connection with the Partnership s commodity price risk management activities. Management enters into financial instruments to hedge forecasted commodity sales against the variability in expected future cash flows attributable to changes in market prices. Swap instruments are contractual agreements between counterparties to exchange obligations of money as the underlying commod ities are sold. Under commodity-based swap agreements, the Partnership receives or pays a fixed price and receives or remits a floating price based on certain indices for the relevant contract period. Commodity-based put option instruments are contractual agreements that require the payment of a premium and grant the purchaser of the put option the right, but not the obligation, to receive the difference between a fixed, or strike price, and a floating price based on certain indices for the relevant contract period, if the floating price is lower than the fixed price. The put option instrument sets a floor price for commodity sales being hedged. Costless collars are a combination of a purchased put option and a sold call option, in which the premiums net to zero. The costless collar eliminates the initial cost of the purchased put, but places a ceiling price for commodity sales being hedged. The MGP formally documents all relationships between hedging instruments and the items being hedged, including its risk management objective and strategy for undertaking the hedging transactions. This includes matching the commodity derivative contracts to the forecasted transactions. The MGP assesses, both at the inception of the derivative and on an ongoing basis, wheth er the derivative was effective in offsetting changes in the forecasted cash flow of the hedged item. If the MGP determines that a derivative is not effective as a hedge or that it has ceased to be an effective hedge due to the loss of adequate correlation between the hedging instrument and the underlying item being hedged, the MGP will discontinue hedge accounting for the derivative and subsequent changes in the derivative fair value, which are determined by management of the MGP through the utilization of market data, will be recognized immediately within gain (loss) on mark-to-market derivatives in the Partnership s statements of operations. For derivatives qualifying as hedges, the Partnership recognizes the effective portion of changes in fair value of derivative instruments as accumulated other comprehensive income and reclassifies the portion relating to the Partnership s commodity derivatives to gas and oil production revenues within the Partnership s statements of operations as the underlying transactions are settled. For non-qualifying derivatives and for the ineffective portion of qualifying derivatives, the Partnership recognizes changes in fair value within gain (loss) on mark-to-market derivatives in the Partnership s statements of operations as they occur. 35 The Partnership enters into derivative contracts with various financial institutions, utilizing master contracts based upon the standards set by the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. These contracts allow for rights of offset at the time of settlement of the derivatives. Due to the right of offset, derivatives are recorded on the Partnership s balance sheets as assets or liabilities at fair value on the basis of the net exposure to each counterparty. Potential credit ris k adjustments are also analyzed based upon the net exposure to each counterparty. Premiums paid for purchased options are recorded on the Partnership s balance sheets as the initial value of the options. The Partnership reflected net derivative assets on its balance sheet of $31,600 and $309,400 at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Partnership enters into commodity future option and collar contracts to achieve more predictable cash flows by hedging its exposure to changes in commodity prices. At any point in time, such contracts may include regulated NYMEX futures and options contracts and non-regulated over-the-counter futures contracts with qualified counterparties. NYMEX contracts are generally settled with offsetting positions, but may be se ttled by the physical delivery of the commodity. Crude oil contracts are based on a West Texas Intermediate ( WTI ) index. NGL fixed price swaps are priced based on a WTI crude oil index. These contracts have qualified and been designated as cash flow hedges and recorded at their fair values. At December 31, 2013, the Partnership had the following commodity derivatives: Natural Gas Fixed Price Swaps Limited Partners Production Period Ending December 31, Volumes (MMBtu) (1) Average Fixed Price (per MMBtu) (1) Fair Value (Liability) Asset (2) 2014 580,800 $ 4.095 $ (54,400 ) 2015 180,000 4.224 14,100 2016 75,600 4.460 24,600 $ (15,700 ) Natural Gas Put Options Limited Partners Production Period Ending December 31, Volumes (MMBtu) (1) Average Fixed Price (per MMBtu) (1) Fair Value Asset (2) 2014 62,000 $ 3.80 $ 7,600 2015 49,600 4.00 16,700 2016 49,600 4.15 23,000 $ 47,300 Limited Partner s Commodity Derivatives, net $ 31,600 (1) MMBtu represents million British Thermal Units. (2) Fair value based on forward NYMEX natural gas prices, as applicable. Effects of Derivative Instruments on Statements of Operations: The following table summarizes the gain or loss recognized in the statements of operations for effective derivative instruments for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012: Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Gains from cash flow hedges reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income into natural gas, oil and liquids revenues $ 69,500 $ 223,300 As the underlying prices and terms in the Partnership s derivative contracts were consistent with the indices used to sell its natural gas and oil, there were no gains or losses recognized during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 for hedge ineffectiveness or as a result of the discontinuance of any cash flow hedges. 36 The MGP has a secured hedge facility agreement with a syndicate of banks under which the Partnership has the ability to enter into derivative contracts to manage its exposure to commodity price movements. Under the MGP s revolving credit facility the Partnership is required to utilize this secured hedge facility for future commodity risk management activity. The Partnership s obligations under the facility are secured by mortgages on it s oil and gas properties and first priority security interests in substantially all of its assets and by a guarantee of the MGP. The MGP administers the commodity price risk management activity for the Partnership under the secured hedge facility. The secured hedge facility agreement contains covenants that limit the Partnership s ability to incur indebtedness, grant liens, make loans or investments, make distributions if a default under the secured hedge facility agreement exists or would result from the distribution, merge into or consolidate with other persons, enter into commodity or interest rate swap agreements that do not conform to specified terms or that exceed specified amounts, or engage in certain asset dispositions including a sale of all or substantially all of its assets. As of December 31, 2013 only the Partnership s natural gas swaps are included in the secured hedge facility. Monetized Gains Prior to February 17, 2011 (date of the Transferred Business), Atlas Energy Inc., ( AEI ) monetized its derivative instruments, including those related to the future natural gas and oil production of the Transferred Business. AEI also monetized derivative instruments that were specifically related to the future natural gas and oil production of the Part nership. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, remaining hedge monetization cash proceeds of $93,600 and $599,500, respectively, related to the amounts hedged on behalf of the Partnership s limited partners were included within accounts receivable monetized gains-affiliate. There were no long-term monetized gains receivable-affiliate for year ended December 31, 2013. At December 31, 2012 $119,900 of long-term monetized gains receivable-affiliate were included in long-term put premiums payable-affiliate, on the Partnership s balance sheets. The Partnership will allocate the monetized net proceeds to the limited partners based on the natural gas and oil production generated over the period of the original derivative contracts. During June 2012, the MGP used the undistributed monetized funds to purchase natural gas put options on behalf of the limited partners of the Partnership only. A premium ( put premium ) was paid to purchase the contracts and will be allocated to natural gas production revenues generated ove r the contractual term of the purchased hedging instruments. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the put premiums were recorded as short-term payables to affiliate of $35,700 and $49,600, respectively, and long-term payables to affiliate of $71,300 and $150,800, respectively. Furthermore, the current portion of the put premium liability was included in accounts receivable monetized gains-affiliate and the long-term receivable monetized gains-affiliate was included in long term put premiums payable-affiliate in the Partnership s balance sheets, presenting the impact of offsetting the related party assets and liabilities. The put premiums included on the Partnership s balance sheets are allocable to the limited partners only. 37 The following table summarizes the gross and net fair values of the Partnership s derivative and affiliate balances, presenting the impact of offsetting the derivative and related party assets and liabilities on the Partnership s balance sheets for the periods indicated: Offsetting Derivative Assets Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets Gross Amounts Offset in the Balance Sheets Net Amount of Assets Presented in the Balance Sheets As of December 31, 2013 Accounts receivable monetized gains-affiliate $ 93,600 $ (35,700 ) $ 57,900 $ 93,600 $ (35,700 ) $ 57,900 Current portion of derivative assets $ 12,000 $ (12,000 ) $ - Long-term derivative assets 82,900 (4,500 ) 78,400 Current portion of derivative liabilities 5,000 (5,000 ) - Long-term derivative liabilities 2,000 (2,000 ) - $ 101,900 $ (23,500 ) $ 78,400 Total derivative assets and affiliate balances $ 195,500 $ (59,200 ) $ 136,300 As of December 31, 2012 Accounts receivable monetized gains-affiliate $ 599,500 $ (49,600 ) $ 549,900 Long-term receivable monetized gains-affiliate 119,900 (119,900 ) - $ 719,400 $ (169,500 ) $ 549,900 Current portion of derivative assets $ 175,700 $ (7,900 ) $ 167,800 Long-term derivative assets 168,200 (26,600 ) 141,600 Current portion of derivative liabilities 5,300 (5,300 ) - Long-term derivative liabilities 900 (900 ) - $ 350,100 $ (40,700 ) $ 309,400 Total derivative assets and affiliate balances $ 1,069,500 $ (210,200 ) $ 859,300 Offsetting Derivative Liabilities Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities Gross Amounts Offset in the Balance Sheets Net Amount of Liabilities Presented in the Balance Sheets As of December 31, 2013 Put premiums payable -affiliate $ (35,700 ) $ 35,700 $ - Long-term put premiums payable-affiliate (71,300 ) - (71,300 ) $ (107,000 ) $ 35,700 $ (71,300 ) Current portion of derivative assets $ (1,900 ) $ 1,900 $ - Long-term derivative assets (4,300 ) 4,300 - Current portion of derivative liabilities (61,900 ) 15,100 (46,800 ) Long-term derivative liabilities (2,200 ) 2,200 - $ (70,300 ) $ 23,500 $ (46,800 ) Total derivative liabilities and affiliate balances $ (177,300 ) $ 59,200 $ (118,100 ) As of December 31, 2012 Put premiums payable -affiliate $ (49,600 ) $ 49,600 $ - Long-term put premiums payable-affiliate (150,800 ) 119,900 (30,900 ) $ (200,400 ) $ 169,500 $ (30,900 ) Current portion of derivative assets $ (7,700 ) $ 7,700 $ - Long-term derivative assets (18,500 ) 18,500 - Current portion of derivative liabilities (5,500 ) 5,500 - Long-term derivative liabilities (9,000 ) 9,000 - $ (40,700 ) $ 40,700 $ - Total derivative liabilities and affiliate balances $ (241,100 ) $ 210,200 $ (30,900 ) 38 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) As a result of the monetization and the early settlement of natural gas and oil derivative instruments, the put options, and the unrealized gains recognized in earnings in prior periods due to natural gas and oil property impairments, the Partnership recorded a net deferred loss on its balance sheets in accumulated other comprehensive loss of $84,200 as of December 31, 2013. Included in accumulated other comprehensive income are unrealized gains of $102,400, net of the MGP interest, that were recognized into earnings as a result of oil and gas property impairments during prior periods. During the current year, $5,800 of net gains were recorded by the Partnership and allocated only to the limited partners. During the current year, $7,100 of net losses were recorded by the Partnership and allocated only to the MGP. Of the remaining $84,200 of net unrealized loss in accumulated other comprehensive loss, the Partnership will reclassify $91,300 of net losses to the Partnership s statements of operations over the next twelve month period and the remaining gains of $7,100 in later periods. Approximately $7,500 of derivative losses were reclassified from other comprehensive (loss) income related to derivative instruments entered into during the year ended December 31, 2013. NOTE 7 FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Partnership has established a hierarchy to measure its financial instruments at fair value which requires it to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Observable inputs represent market data obtained from independent sources; whereas, unobservable inputs reflect the Partnership s own market assumptions, which are used if observable inp uts are not reasonably available without undue cost and effort. The hierarchy defines three levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value: Level 1 Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical, unrestricted assets and liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to access at the measurement date. Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset and liability or can be corroborated with observable market data for substantially the entire contractual term of the asset or liability. Level 3 Unobservable inputs that reflect the entity s own assumptions about the assumptions market participants would use in the pricing of the asset or liability and are consequently not based on market activity but rather through particular valuation techniques. Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis The carrying values of cash, accounts receivable, and accounts payable approximate their respective fair values due to the short-term maturities of such financial instruments. The Partnership uses a market approach fair value methodology to value the assets and liabilities for its outstanding derivative contracts (see Note 6). The Partnership manages and reports the derivative assets and liabilities on the basis of its net exposure to market risks and credit risks by counterparty. The Partnership s commodit y derivative contracts are valued based on observable market data related to the change in price of the underlying commodity and are therefore defined as Level 2 assets and liabilities within the same class of nature and risk. These derivative instruments are calculated by utilizing commodity indices, quoted prices for futures and options contracts traded on open markets that coincide with the underlying commodity, expiration period, strike price (if applicable) and pricing formula utilized in the derivative instrument. 39 Information for assets and liabilities measured at fair value at December 31, 2013 and 2012 was as follows: Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total As of December 31, 2013 Derivative assets, gross Commodity swaps $ - $ 54,600 $ - $ 54,600 Commodity puts - 47,300 - 47,300 Total derivative assets, gross $ - $ 101,900 $ - $ 101,900 Derivative liabilities, gross Commodity swaps $ - $ (70,300 ) $ - $ (70,300 ) Total derivative, fair value, net $ - $ 31,600 $ - $ 31,600 As of December 31, 2012 Derivative assets, gross Commodity swaps $ - $ 215,800 $ - $ 215,800 Commodity puts - 134,300 - 134,300 Total derivative assets, gross $ - $ 350,100 $ - $ 350,100 Derivative liabilities, gross Commodity swaps $ - $ (40,700 ) $ - $ (40,700 ) Total derivative, fair value, net $ - $ 309,400 $ - $ 309,400 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis The Partnership s other current assets and liabilities on its balance sheets are considered to be financial instruments. The estimated fair values of these instruments approximate their carrying amounts due to their short-term nature and thus are categorized as Level 1. The Partnership estimates the fair value of its asset retirement obligations based on discounted cash flow projections using numerous estimates, assumptions and judgments regarding such factors at the date of establishment of an asset retirement obligation such as: amounts and timing of settlements, the credit-adjusted risk-free rate of the Partnership and estimated inflation rates. There were no adjustments to retirement obligations measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012: The Partnership estimates the fair value of its long-lived assets in conjunction with the review of asset impairment or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable, using estimates, assumptions, and judgments regarding such events or circumstances. There was no impairment of oil and gas properties during the year ended December 31, 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the Partnership recognized $457,300, respectively, impairment of long-lived assets which was defined as a Level 3 fair value measurement (see Note 2 Impairment of Long-Lived Assets). NOTE 8 CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Partnership has entered into the following significant transactions with its MGP and its affiliates as provided under its Partnership Agreement. Administrative costs, which are included in general and administrative expenses in the Partnership s statements of operations, are payable at $75 per well per month. Monthly well supervision fees which are included in general and administrative expenses in the Partnership s statements of operations are payable at $975 per well per month for Marcellus wells and $1,500 per well per month for New Albany wells. For all other wells a fee of $392 is charged per well per month for operating and maintaining the wells. Transportation fees are included in production expenses in the Partnership s statements of operations and are generally payable at 16% of the natural gas sales price. Direct costs, which are included in production and general administrative expenses in the Partnership s statements of operations, are payable to the MGP and its affiliates as reimbursement for all costs expended on the Partnership s behalf. 40 The following table provides information with respect to these costs and the periods incurred. Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Administrative $ 135,000 $ 142,600 Supervision 1,082,100 1,138,800 Transportation 627,500 595,900 Direct Costs 1,866,700 2,254,100 Total $ 3,711,300 $ 4,131,400 The MGP and its affiliates perform all administrative and management functions for the Partnership including billing revenues and paying expenses. Accounts receivable trade-affiliate on the Partnership s balance sheets includes the net production revenues due from the MGP. Subordination by Managing General Partner Under the terms of the Partnership Agreement, the MGP may be required to subordinate up to 50% of its share of net production revenues so that the limited partners receive a return of at least 10% of their net subscriptions determined on a cumulative basis, in each of the first five years of Partnership operations, commencing with the first distribution to the limited partners (September 2009) and expiring 60 months from that date. The MGP subordinated $262,000 of its net production revenues to the limited partners for the year ended December 31, 2013. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the limited partners returned $28,500 of subordination as a result of prior period working interest adjustments. NOTE 9 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES General Commitments Subject to certain conditions, investor partners may present their interests beginning in 201 3 for purchase by the MGP. The purchase price is calculated by the MGP in accordance with the terms of the partnership agreement. The MGP is not obligated to purchase more than 5% of the units in any calendar year. In the event that the MGP is unable to obtain the necessary funds, it may suspend its purchase obligation. Beginning one year after each of the Partnership' s wells has been placed into production, the MGP, as operator, may retain $200 per month per well to cover estimated future plugging and abandonment costs. As of December 31, 2013, the MGP has not withheld any such funds. The MGP is currently evaluating its right to exercise this option based on several factors such as commodity prices, the natural decline in well production, and current and future plugging services and costs. Legal Proceedings The Partnership is a party to various routine legal proceedings arising out of the ordinary course of its business. Management believes that none of these actions, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the Partnership s financial condition or results of operations. NOTE 10 SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Management has considered for disclosure any material subsequent events through the date the financial statements were issued. 41 NOTE 11 SUPPLEMENTAL OIL AND GAS INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) Oil and Gas Reserve Information. The preparation of the Partnership s natural gas and oil reserve estimates was completed in accordance with our MGP s prescribed internal control procedures by its reserve engineers. The accompanying reserve information included below is attributable to the reserves of the Partnership and was derived from the reserve reports prepared for Atlas Resources Public #18 2008 (A) L.P. annual Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (see Note 2). For the periods presented, Wright and Company, Inc., an independent third-party reserve engineer, was retained to prepare a report of proved reserves related to the Partnership. The reserve information for the Partnership includes natural gas and oil reserves which are all located in the United States. The independent reserves engineer s evaluation was based on more than 37 years of experience in the estimation of and evaluation of petroleum reserves, specified economic parameters, operating conditions, and government regulations. The MGP s internal control procedures include verification of input data delivered to its third-party reserve specialist, as well as a multi-functional management review. The preparation of reserve estimates was overseen by MGP s Senior Reserve Engineer, who is a member of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and has more than 15 years of natural gas and oil industry experience. The reserve estimates were reviewed and approved by the MGP s senior engineering staff and management, with final approval by the MGP s Chief Operating Officer. The reserve disclosures that follow reflect estimates of proved developed reserves net of royalty interests, of natural gas, crude oil, and natural gas liquids owned at year end. Proved developed reserves are those reserves that can be expected to be recovered through existing wells with existing equipment and operating methods or in which the cost of the required equipment is relatively minor compared to the cost of a new well; and through installed extraction equipment and infrastructure operational at the time of the reserves estimate if the extraction is by means not involving a well. In accordance with the prevailing accounting literature, the proved reserves quantities and future net cash flows as of December 31, 2013, and 2012 were estimated using an unweighted 12-month average pricing based on the prices on the first day of each month during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 and, including adjustments related to regional price differentials and energy content. There are numerous uncertainties inherent in estimating quantities of proven reserves and in projecting future net revenues and the timing of development expenditures. The reserve data presented represents estimates only and should not be construed as being exact. In addition, the st andardized measures of discounted future net cash flows may not represent the fair market value of oil and gas reserves included within the Partnership or the present value of future cash flows of equivalent reserves, due to anticipated future changes in oil and gas prices and in production and development costs and other factors, for their effects have not been proved. Reserve quantity information and a reconciliation of changes in proved reserve quantities included within the Partnership are as follows (unaudited): Gas (Mcf) Oil (Bbls) Liquid (Bbls) Balance, December 31, 2011 15,441,600 49,000 95,200 Revisions (1) (3,563,100 ) (7,700 ) 17,900 Production (1,701,900 ) (4,500 ) (6,400 ) Balance, December 31, 2012 10,176,600 36,800 106,700 Revisions (2) 2,294,500 (1,000 ) (10,100 ) Production (1,450,800 ) (1,800 ) (1,400 ) Balance, December 31, 2013 11,020,300 34,000 95,200 (1) The downward revision in natural gas volumes is primarily due to a decline in SEC base pricing from the prior year, a decrease in the positive gas price basis differentials and a decrease in economic lives resulting from increased expenses. (2) The upward revision in natural gas volumes is primarily due to an increase in SEC base pricing from the prior year; the downward revision in oil and NGL volumes is primarily due to forecast adjustments in order to better reflect actual production. 42 Capitalized Costs Related to Oil and Gas Producing Activities. The components of capitalized costs related to oil and gas producing activities of the Partnership during the periods indicated were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Natural gas and oil properties: Leasehold interest $ 2,406,800 $ 2,769,100 Wells and related equipment 213,277,500 222,496,100 Accumulated depletion, accretion and impairment (194,164,000 ) (199,207,100 ) Net capitalized costs $ 21,520,300 $ 26,058,100 Results of Operations from Oil and Gas Producing Activities. The results of operations related to the Partnership s oil and gas producing activities during the periods indicated were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Revenues $ 5,738,800 $ 5,664,000 Production costs (3,509,700 ) (3,913,900 ) Depletion (3,026,500 ) (3,364,500 ) Long-lived asset impairment - (457,300 ) $ (797,400 ) $ (2,071,700 ) Standardized Measure of Discounted Future Cash Flows. The following schedule presents the standardized measure of estimated discounted future net cash flows relating to the Partnership s proved oil and gas reserves. The estimated future production was pric ed at a twelve-month average for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, adjusted only for regional price differentials and energy content. The resulting estimated future cash inflows were reduced by estimated future costs to produce the proved reserves based on year-end cost levels and includes the effect on cash flows of settlement of asset retirement obligations on gas and oil properties. The future net cash flows were reduced to present value amounts by applying a 10% discount factor. The standardized measure of future cash flows was prepared using the prevailing economic conditions existing at the dates presented and such conditions continually change. Accordingly, such information should not serve as a basis in making any judgment on the potential value of recoverable reserves or in estimating future results of operations: Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Future cash inflows $ 49,127,200 $ 37,542,100 Future production costs (29,282,500 ) (22,788,900 ) Future development costs (1,013,900 ) (1,766,300 ) Future net cash flows 18,830,800 12,986,900 Less 10% annual discount for estimated timing of cash flows (7,996,800 ) (5,270,300 ) Standardized measure of discounted future net cash flows $ 10,834,000 $ 7,716,600 43 °Item 9: CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE None. °Item 9A: CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures We maintain disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our Securities Exchange Act of 1934 reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our general partner s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Offic er, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. In designing and evaluating the disclosure controls and procedures, our management recognized that any controls and procedures, no matter how well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable assurance of achieving the desired control objectives, and our management necessarily was required to apply its judgment in evaluating the cost-benefit relationship of possible controls and procedures. Under the supervision of our general partner s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer and with the participation of our disclosure committee appointed by such officers, we have carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report, Based upon that evaluation, our general partner s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of December 31, 2013, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level. Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting The management of our general partner is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including our general partner s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial re porting based upon criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in the 1992 Internal Control Integrated Framework (COSO framework). An effective internal control system, no matter how well designed, has inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error and circumvention or overriding of controls and therefore can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to reliable financial reporting. Furthermore, effectiveness of an internal control syste m in future periods cannot be guaranteed because the design of any system of internal controls is based in part upon assumptions about the likelihood of future events. There can be no assurance that any control design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions. Over time certain controls may become inadequate because of changes in business conditions, or the degree of compliance with policies and procedures may deteriorate. As such, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2013 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. This annual report does not include an attestation report by our registered public accounting firm regarding internal control of financial reporting because such a report is not required pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 44 PART III °Item 10: DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Our general partner manages our activities. Unitholders do not directly or indirectly participate in our management or operation or have actual or apparent authority to enter into contracts on our behalf or to otherwise bind us. As of December 31, 2013 the following table sets forth information with respect to those persons who serve as the officers of our general partner: Name Age Position(s) Sean P. McGrath 42 Chief Financial Officer Freddie M. Kotek 58 Senior Vice President of Investment Partnership Division Dave E. Leopold 50 Senior Vice President of Operations Jack L. Hollander 57 Senior Vice President Direct Participation Programs Sean P. McGrath has served as Chief Financial Officer of our general partner since February 2012. Sean McGrath has served as Chief Financial Officer of Atlas Energy s general partner since February 2011. Mr. McGrath was Chief Accounting Officer of Atlas Energy, Inc. and Chief Accounting Officer of Atlas Energy Resources, LLC from December 2008 until February 2011. Mr. McGrath served as Chief Accounting Officer of Atlas Energy GP, LLC (which is Atlas Energy s general partner) from January 2006 until November 2009 and as Chief Accounting Officer of Atlas Pipeline Partners GP, LLC from May 2005 until November 2009. Mr. McGrath was Controller of Sunoco Logistics Partners L.P., a publicly-traded partnership that transports, terminals and stores refined products and crude oil, from 2002 until 2005. From 1998 until 2002, Mr. McGrath was Assistant Controller of Asplundh Tree Expert Co., a utility services and vegetation management company. Mr. McGrath is a Certified Public Accountant. Freddie M. Kotek has served as Senior Vice Pre sident of our general partner since March 2012. Mr. Kotek has served as Senior Vice President of Atlas Energy s general partner since February 2011. Mr. Kotek was an Executive Vice President of Atlas Energy, Inc. from February 2004 until February 2011 and served as a director of Atlas Energy, Inc. from September 2001 until February 2004. Mr. Kotek also was Chief Financial Officer of Atlas Energy, Inc. from February 2004 until March 2005. Mr. Kotek has been Chairman of Atlas Resources, LLC since September 2001 and Chief Executive Officer and President since January 2002. Mr. Kotek was a Senior Vice President of Resource America, Inc. from 1995 until May 2004 and President of Resource Leasing, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of Resource America, Inc., from 1995 until May 2004. Dave E. Leopold has served as Senior Vice President of Operations of our general partner since December 2013. Mr. Leopold has been Regional Vice President Operations of ARP since March 2013. Prior to joining ARP, Mr. Leopold was the Oper ations Manager for Chesapeake Energy in Fort Worth, Texas where he led the Barnett Shale operations team to become the second largest producer in the play. From August 2000 to September 2006, Mr. Leopold held various management positions at Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, most recently serving as Production Engineering Manager over the Austin Chalk, Bossier Shale and what is now known as the Eagle Ford Shale. From 1991 to 2000, Mr. Leopold held various engineering and management roles with Union Pacific Resources in Fort Worth, Texas. From 1987 to 1991, he held drilling and reservoir engineering roles with Plains Petroleum Operating Company in Kansas and Colorado. Jack L. Hollander has served as Senior Vice President Direct Participation Programs since Ja nuary 2002. Prior to that he served as Vice President Direct Participation Programs from January 2001 until December 2001. Mr. Hollander also serves as Senior Vice President Direct Participation Programs of Atlas America since January 2002. Mr. Hollander practiced law with Rattet, Hollander Pasternak, concentrating in tax matters and real estate transactions, from 1990 to January 2001, and served as in-house counsel for Integrated Resources, Inc. (a diversified financial services company) from 1982 to 1990. Mr. Hollander earned a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of Rhode Island in 1978, his law degree from Brooklyn Law School in 1981, and a Master of Law degree in Taxation from New York University School of Law Graduate Division in 1982. Mr. Hollander is a member of the New York State bar, and the Chairman of the Investment Program Association which is an industry association, as of March 2005. Mr. Hollander devotes approximately 100% of his professional time to the business and affairs of the MGP, Atlas Energy, Atlas Energy Resources, LLC and Atlas Energy Management, Inc. 45 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Because the Partnership does not directly employ any persons, the MGP has determined that the partnership will rely on a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer of our general partner, as well as to persons performing services for us generally. We will make a printed copy of ou r code of ethics available to any limited partner who so requests. Requests for print copies may be directed to us as follows: Atlas Resource Partners, L.P., Park Place Corporate Center One, 1000 Commerce Drive, 4 th Floor, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15275-1011, Attention: Secretary. The code of business conduct is also posted, and any waivers we grant thereunder will be posted, on our website at www.atlasresourcepartners.com. °Item 11: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION Compensation Discussion and Analysis Introduction We do not directly employ any persons to manage or operate our businesses. Instead, all of the persons (including executive officers of our general partner and other personnel) necessary for the management of our business are employed and compensated by Atlas Energy. Pursuant to our partnership agreement, our general partner manages our operations and activities through and its affiliates employees (including employees of Atlas Energy and its general partner). No officer or director of our MGP receives any direct renumberation or other compensation from us. (see Item 13: Certain Relationships and Related Transactions for a discussion of compensation paid by us to our MGP). °Item 12: SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT As of December 31, 2013, we had 20,152.50 units outstanding. No officer or director of our MGP owns any units. Although, subject to certain conditions, investor partners may present their units to us beginning in 2013 for purchase, the MGP is not obligated by the Partnership Agreement to purchase more than 5% of our total outstanding units in any calendar year. The MGP is owned 100% by Atlas Resource Partners, whose ultimate parent is Atlas Energy. °Item 13: CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE Our Relationship with Atlas Resource, LLC Oil and Gas Revenues. Our MGP is allocated 27.68% of our oil and gas revenues in return for its payment and/or contribution of services towards our syndication and offering costs equal to 10.56% of our subscriptions, its payment of 40% of the tangible costs and .361% of intangible costs of drilling and completing our wells and its contributions to us of all of our oil and gas leases for a total capital contribution of $43,219,400. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, our MGP received $611,100 and $509,700, respectively, for our net production revenues. Administrative costs, which are included in general and administrative expenses in the Partnership s statements of operations, are payable at $75 per well per month. Monthly well supervision fees which are included in general and administrative expenses in the Partnership s statements of operations are payable at $975 per well per month f or Marcellus wells and $1,500 per well per month for New Albany wells. For all other wells a fee of $392 is charged per well per month for operating and maintaining the wells. Transportation fees are included in production expenses in the Partnership s statements of operations and are generally payable at 16% of the natural gas sales price. Direct costs, which are included in production and general administrative expenses in the Partnership s statements of operations, are payable to the MGP and its affiliates as reimbursement for all costs expended on the Partnership s behalf. The following table provides information with respect to these costs and the periods incurred: Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Administrative $ 135,000 $ 142,600 Supervision 1,082,100 1,138,800 Transportation 627,500 595,900 Direct Costs 1,866,700 2,254,100 Total $ 3,711,300 $ 4,131,400 46 Other Compensation. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, our MGP did not advance any funds to us, or did it provide us with any equipment, supplies or other services. °Item 14: PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the accounting fees and services charged by Grant Thornton, LLP, our independent auditors, were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2013 2012 Audit fees $ 33,700 $ 33,600 Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policies and Procedures The audit committee of our general partner, on at least an annual basis, will review audit and non-audit services performed by Grant Thornton LLP as well as the fees charged by Grant Thornton LLP for such services. Our policy is that all audit and non-audit services must be pre-approved by the audit committee. All of such services and fees were pre-approved during 2013 and 2012. 47 PART IV °Item 15: EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES EXHIBIT INDEX Description Location 4(a) Certificate of Limited Partnership for Atlas Resources Public #18-2008 (A) L.P. Previously filed in our Form S-1/A on October 10, 2007 4(b) Amended and Restated Certificate and Agreement of Limited Partnership for Atlas Resources Public #18-2008 (A) L.P. Previously filed in our Form S-1/A on October 10, 2007 4(c) Drilling and Operating Agreement for Atlas Resources Public #18-2008 (A) L.P. (1) Previously filed in our Form S-1/A on October 10, 2007 23.1 Consent of Wright and Company, Inc. 31.1 Rule 13a-14(a)/15(d) 14 (a) Certification 31.2 Rule 13a-14(a)/15(d) 14 (a) Certification. 32.1 Section 1350 Certification. 32.2 Section 1350 Certification. 99.1 Summary Reserve Report 101 Interactive Data File (1) Filed on October 15, 2008 in the Form S-1/A Registration Statement dated October 15, 2008 File No. 333-150925-03 48 SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities of the Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. ATLAS RESOURCES PARTNERS L.P. BY: ATLAS RESOURCE PARTNERS GP, LLC, ITS GENERAL PARTNER ATLAS ENERGY L.P. Date: March 31, 2014 By: /s/ FREDDIE M. KOTEK Freddie M. Kotek, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following person on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. Date: March 31, 2014 By: /s/ SEAN P. MCGRATH Sean P. McGrath, Chief Financial Officer 49 
