 UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Delaware 11-3500746 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 14100 NW 57 th Court, Miami Lakes, Florida 33014 (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code) (305) 324-2300 (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: Common Stock, par value $0.01 NYSE MKT (Title of class) (Name of each exchange on which registered) Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.Yes o No x Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.Yes o No x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes x No o Indicate by check mark whether registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes x No o Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. x Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of large accelerated filer, accelerated filer and smaller reporting company in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Large accelerated filer o Accelerated filer o Non-accelerated filer o Smaller reporting company x (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes o No x The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant on June 30, 2013, was approximately $6,543,788 computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold on the NYSE MKT on such date. As of April 4, 2014, there were 43,783,221 shares of common stock outstanding. Documents Incorporated by Reference: Portions of the registrant s Proxy Statement relating to the registrant s 2014 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K. TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013 TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE PART I °Item 1. Business 1 °Item 1A. Risk Factors 9 °Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 27 °Item 2. Properties 27 °Item 3. Legal Proceedings 27 °Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 27 PART II °Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 28 °Item 6. Selected Financial Data 28 °Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 29 °Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 38 °Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 39 °Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 66 °Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 66 °Item 9B. Other Information 67 PART III °Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 68 °Item 11. Executive Compensation 70 °Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 70 °Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 71 °Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services 71 PART IV °Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 72 i TABLE OF CONTENTS PART I °Item 1. BUSINESS General . We are the parent corporation of the following five subsidiaries: Delta Biologicals, S.r.l.; Diamedix Corporation; Drew Scientific, Inc.; ImmunoVision, Inc.; and JAS Diagnostics, Inc. Through these subsidiaries, we develop, manufacture and market diagnostic test kits, or assays, and automated systems that are used to aid in the detection of disease markers primarily in the areas of autoimmune, infectious diseases, clinical chemistry, hematology and diabetes testing. These tests, which are designed to aid in the identification of the causes of illness and disease, assist physicians in selecting appropriate patient treatment. Our tests are based on a wide variety of technologies including Enzyme Linked ImmunoSorbent Assay, or ELISA, technology, clinical chemistry, hematology and cell separation, as well as HPLC separations, all of which are clinical testing methodologies used worldwide. Autoimmune and infectious disease specific tests are prepared using a 96 well microplate format whereby specific antigens are typically coated on the wells of a microplate during the manufacturing process. A test using ELISA technology involves a series of reagent additions to the microplate causing a reaction that results in a visible color in the wells. The amount of color is directly proportionate to the amount of the specific analyte in the patient sample. Our kits are designed to be performed either manually or in an automated format. In addition to our line of diagnostic kits, we also design and manufacture laboratory instruments that perform the tests and provide fast and accurate results, while reducing labor costs. Our existing proprietary instruments, named the Mago 4, Mago 4S, Mago Plus and Aptus systems, include a fully-automated ELISA processor operating with our own user-friendly software, which allows customers to perform tests in an automated mode. In 2009, we updated the Mago Plus instrument to include the capability to process ELISA and ImmunoFluorescent Assay, or IFA, simultaneously. In 2009, we completed the development of, received European regulatory approvals for, and began non-domestic commercial deliveries of, an upgraded version of the Mago Plus instrument, named the Mago 4, which performs both ELISA and IFA techniques simultaneously, performs positive sample identification and utilizes disposable pipette tips. The Mago 4 offers an enhanced automation solution to customers who prefer a more compact, lower-priced instrument with features and benefits similar to many of the other instruments currently offered in the marketplace. In 2010, we continued the development of a variation of the Mago Plus, named the Mago 4S, for the market in the United States. The Mago 4S also performs both ELISA and IFA techniques simultaneously. In January 2011, we received the required 510(k) regulatory clearance for the Mago 4S and, later in 2011, we began to market the instrument in the United States. We also develop, manufacture and market raw materials, such as antigens used in the production of diagnostic kits. Our management reviews financial information, allocates resources and manages the business as two segments defined by geographic region. One segment the domestic region contains our subsidiaries located in the United States and corporate operations. Our other segment the European region contains our subsidiary located in Italy. For additional information about our two segments, see Note 11, Segment Information , to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Delta, which IVAX Corporation, our former parent company, acquired in 1991, was established in 1980. From its facility located in Pomezia, Italy, it manufactures scientific and laboratory instruments, including its proprietary Mago 4, Mago 4S and Mago Plus systems, which include hardware, reagents and software. The market trend for in vitro diagnostic products is towards increased laboratory automation that allows laboratories to improve their efficiencies and lower cost. We believe that our proprietary Mago 4, Mago 4S, Mago Plus and Aptus systems should enable laboratories to achieve increased automation in the test sectors in which we compete. The Mago 4, Mago 4S, Mago Plus and Aptus systems, in association with over 250 specific ELISA-based and IFA assays acquired from Diamedix and third parties, as well as a complete 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS line of allergy products, are sold in Italy through Delta s sales representatives and independent agents, who are restricted from selling competing products. Delta also sells in Italy other diagnostic products manufactured by third parties. During the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately 69.4% and 42.8%, respectively, of Delta s revenue generated from customers in Italy was revenue from government owned hospitals and the remaining 30.6% and 57.2%, respectively, was revenue from private laboratories. Thus, sales in Italy are heavily concentrated in the public sector, which impacts the timing of collections. Delta also serves as the distribution and support center for selling these same products to distributors located in other European and international markets outside of Italy. Diamedix was established in 1986 after it acquired all of the assets and retained substantially all of the personnel of Cordis Laboratories, Inc., a company that had developed, manufactured and marketed diagnostic equipment since 1962. IVAX Corporation acquired Diamedix in 1987. Diamedix products are sold in the United States through Diamedix sales force and in international markets through third party distributors. Diamedix markets or distributes approximately 100 assays that the United States Food and Drug Administration, or FDA, has cleared. Our autoimmune product line consists of approximately 50 ELISA test kits and approximately 50 IFA assays that the FDA has cleared. These products include test kits for screening antinuclear antibodies and specific tests to measure antibodies to dsDNA, SSA, SSB, Sm, Sm/RNP, Scl 70, Jo-1, Rheumatoid Factor, MPO, PR-3, TPO, TG, and others. These products are used for the diagnosis and monitoring of autoimmune diseases, including Systemic Lupus Erythematosus, or SLE, Rheumatoid Arthritis, Mixed Connective Tissue Disease, Sjogren s Syndrome, Scleroderma, and Dermatopolymyositis. Our infectious disease product line, together with kits obtained from third party companies, includes approximately 30 kits that the FDA has cleared, including Toxoplasma IgG, Toxoplasma IgM, Rubella IgG, Rubella IgM, Cytomegalovirus, or CMV, IgG, CMV IgM, Herpes Simplex Virus, or HSV, IgG, HSV IgM, Measles, Varicella Zoster Virus, or VZV, Lyme Disease, H. pylori, Mumps, six different Epstein-Barr Virus, or EBV, kits and others. In international markets, this line of autoimmune and infectious disease products is supplemented by additional products that are obtained from third party companies. Diamedix is located in Miami Lakes, Florida. Drew Scientific was established in 1980. As described in further detail below, we acquired Drew Scientific on October 3, 2012. Drew Scientific is a diagnostics company specializing in the design, manufacture and distribution of instruments for blood cell counting and blood analysis. Drew Scientific is focused on providing instrumentation and consumables for physician office and veterinary office laboratories. Drew Scientific also supplies the reagent and other consumable materials needed to operate the instruments. Drew Scientific sells diabetic testing products including the DS5 instrument, dispenser and associated reagent kit, which measure long-term glucose control in diabetic patients (HbA1c). The DS5 instrumentation system, with its small size and ease of use, is sold principally into main laboratory, clinic or satellite laboratory settings. The DS5 instrument and associated reagent kit provides for the in vitro measurement of certain genetic diseases of the blood. In the United States, this instrument is available for research only. Additionally, Drew Scientific offers a broad array of equipment for use in the field of human and veterinary hematology. Drew Scientific s Excell product lines are for use in the field of human hematology, and its Hemavet product line is for use in the veterinary field. Drew Scientific has facilities located in Waterbury, Connecticut, and Dallas, Texas. Since 1985, ImmunoVision has been developing, manufacturing and marketing autoimmune reagents and research products for use by research laboratories and commercial diagnostic manufacturers. These manufacturers (including Diamedix) use these antigens to produce autoimmune diagnostic kits. IVAX Corporation acquired ImmunoVision in 1995. ImmunoVision is located in Springdale, Arkansas. JAS Diagnostics was established in 2000. As described in further detail below, we acquired JAS Diagnostics on October 3, 2012. JAS Diagnostics specializes in the manufacture of a broad range of liquid stable, diagnostics chemistry reagents used for in vitro diagnostics testing. Many of these reagents are single vial stable, which we believe offer ease of use, increased speed of results and extended on-board stability. JAS Diagnostics reagents are sold through distributors and directly to end users customers physician, reference, hospital and veterinary diagnostic testing laboratories. JAS Diagnostics has many general chemistry reagents that can be used on numerous open system chemistry instrument analyzers. JAS Diagnostics is located in Miami Lakes, Florida. 2 TABLE OF CONTENTS Acquisition . On October 3, 2012, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Drew Scientific from a subsidiary of Escalon Medical Corp., or Escalon. The acquired businesses had been commonly known as the Escalon Clinical Diagnostics Business, which consisted of Drew Scientific (located in Waterbury, Connecticut, and Dallas, Texas), and its wholly-owned subsidiaries JAS Diagnostics, Inc. (located in Miami Lakes, Florida), and Drew Scientific Limited Co. (at the time located in Barrow-in-Furness, United Kingdom). Name Change . As approved by our stockholders at the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 15, 2012, and as previously approved by our Board of Directors, our company s name was changed from IVAX Diagnostics, Inc. to ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. Merger . On November 21, 2000, IVAX Corporation and the pre-merger IVAX Diagnostics, Inc., which then was a wholly-owned subsidiary of IVAX Corporation and which was incorporated in 1996 by IVAX Corporation to be the parent corporation of Diamedix, Delta and ImmunoVision, entered into a definitive merger agreement with us, pursuant to which the pre-merger IVAX Diagnostics would merge with and into us, with us as the surviving corporation. The merger was consummated on March 14, 2001, and our name was changed from b2bstores.com Inc. to IVAX Diagnostics, Inc. As a result of the merger, approximately 70% of the then issued and outstanding shares of our common stock became owned by IVAX Corporation and our business became that of the pre-merger IVAX Diagnostics. We were incorporated on June 28, 1999 under the laws of the State of Delaware. Prior to the merger, we operated an Internet web site that was specifically designed to assist business customers in the operation and development of their businesses. The web site was designed to provide business customers with access to products and supplies, a network of business services and business content. On December 1, 2000, we ceased all web site related operations and permanently shut down our web site. Controlling Stockholder . On July 25, 2005, IVAX Corporation, which then owned approximately 72.3% of the outstanding shares of our common stock, entered into a definitive agreement and plan of merger with Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Limited, or Teva, providing for IVAX Corporation to be merged into a wholly-owned subsidiary of Teva. On January 26, 2006, the merger was consummated and IVAX Corporation became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Teva. As a result of the merger, Teva, indirectly through its wholly-owned IVAX Corporation subsidiary, owned approximately 72.3% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. On September 2, 2008, a group comprised of Debregeas Associes Pharma SAS, a company wholly-owned by Patrice R. Debregeas and members of his family, Paul F. Kennedy and Umbria LLC, a company wholly-owned by Mr. Kennedy, purchased from Teva all of the approximately 72.3% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock then owned by Teva, indirectly through its wholly-owned IVAX Corporation subsidiary. For purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, Debregeas Associes Pharma SAS, Patrice R. Debregeas, Paul F. Kennedy and Umbria LLC are collectively known as the Debregeas-Kennedy Group. On September 1, 2010, ERBA Diagnostics Mannheim GmbH, or ERBA Mannheim, an in vitro diagnostics company headquartered in Germany, the parent company of which is Transasia Bio-Medicals Ltd., or Transasia, purchased all of the approximately 72.4% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock then owned by the Debregeas-Kennedy Group for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $15,000,000, or $0.75 per share. As a result of this share acquisition, the consummation of the various transactions contemplated by the investment made by ERBA Mannheim pursuant to that certain Stock Purchase Agreement, as further described below, including ERBA Mannheim s purchase from us, and our issuance to ERBA Mannheim, of an aggregate of 15,333,334 shares of our common stock, and ERBA Mannheim s exercise, in part, of the Warrant, as further described below, for 600,000 shares of our common stock, ERBA Mannheim now beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 82.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. 3 TABLE OF CONTENTS Market . In vitro diagnostics, which involves the detection of diseases, conditions or infections from fluid or tissue samples from the human body, has evolved into one of the fastest growing diagnostics markets in the world. Today, immunoassays associated with in vitro diagnostics are essential to the practice of health care worldwide and represent the second largest segment of the in vitro diagnostics market. These tests have been contributing significantly to clinical laboratory work since the 1960s, and driving the total in vitro diagnostics market over the last few decades. Future growth prospects for immunoassays remain promising, thanks to the steady expansion in potential applications in clinical diagnostics, incremental technological improvements such as greater accuracy, sensitivity, result turnaround times and portability, user friendliness and rising demand for quality healthcare services from an expanding base of aging population. The market for in vitro diagnostic products consists of reference laboratory and hospital laboratory testing, testing in physician offices and over the counter testing, in which testing can be performed at home by the consumer. Our historical focus was specifically centered on the immunoassay segment of the in vitro diagnostics market. By product segment, the enzyme immunoassay systems market continues to remain the largest and the fastest growing product segment in the global immunoassay systems market, by value. Further, our focused effort remains on the market for autoimmune and infectious disease immunoassay products. However, now with the acquisition of Drew Scientific s and JAS Diagnostics well known brands of DREW and JAS, respectively, analyzers and reagents for testing of HbA1c, hematology and clinical chemistry tests, we have significantly expanded our market. Drew Scientific has been in the business of diabetes management and hematology since 1980. This acquisition marked our entry into the important and strategic segment of diabetes management, which has so far been dominated by four companies. It is estimated that diabetes affects close to 250 million people worldwide. In North America, nearly 23 million people are currently affected. In Brazil, Russia, Indian and China, the numbers are even larger with 12 million in Brazil, 12.6 million in Russia, 61 million in India and 90 million in China. The World Health Organization has estimated that the worldwide prevalence of diabetes is approximately 7% of the worldwide population. Drew Scientific sells its chromatography based HbA1c analyzers along with hematology and clinical chemistry solutions in 82 countries worldwide. Drew Scientific holds FDA clearance for its HbA1c, hematology and clinical chemistry products and solutions and further has regulatory clearances in approximately 72 countries. We see the opportunity of entering the critical and rapidly growing segment of diabetes management. ERBA Mannheim and its affiliates enjoy leadership positions in high burden countries such as India and have substantial marketing and distribution infrastructure in North America, Europe, Asia, Africa and Latin America, which we intend to leverage. Drew Scientific also provides instrumentation and consumables for the physician office labs, small hospital labs and veterinary research laboratories in the diagnostics segment of clinical chemistry and hematology. Included in this market is JAS Diagnostics broad range of liquid stable, clinical chemistry and hematology reagents for human and veterinary application. JAS Diagnostics reagents are sold through distributors and directly to our end-user customers (physician, reference, hospital and veterinary) diagnostic testing laboratories. JAS Diagnostics sells JAS labeled finished product reagent kits, along with private label reagents and various forms of bulk/subassembly reagents to other manufacturers for sale under their labels. JAS Diagnostics many general chemistry reagents can be used on most open system chemistry instrument analyzers, through our specific instrument applications. Additionally, JAS Diagnostics reagents are marketed for use as instrument specific reagent lines, such as in instrument reagent containers and bar coded for use on the Olympus 400 and 600 series, Mindray BS-200, Alfa Wassermann ACE/ALERA chemistry analyzers, among others. Research and Development . We devote substantial resources for research and development. We incurred $840,000 in 2013 and $1,100,000 in 2012 for research and development activities. Our research and development efforts have been targeted primarily towards the development of the next-generation instrument LISA XL. In the fourth quarter of 2011, one of our subsidiaries entered into a contract research and development agreement with ERBA Mannheim for a total of Euro 754,700, pursuant to which ERBA Mannheim agreed to pay the subsidiary a total amount of Euro 133,000, equivalent to approximately 4 TABLE OF CONTENTS $186,000, during the fourth quarter of 2011 and an additional Euro 621,700 (equivalent to approximately $799,000) during 2012 for the results of certain research and development. During 2013, our subsidiary billed ERBA Mannheim for an additional Euro 675,000 (equivalent to approximately $896,000) for research and development expenditures related to the above mentioned agreement. We also plan to expand the menu of test kits we offer in the autoimmune and infectious disease testing sectors and we are considering entering additional diagnostic test sectors. Sales and Marketing . We currently market our products in the United States primarily through our own sales force to hospitals, reference laboratories, clinical laboratories and research laboratories, as well as to other commercial companies that manufacture diagnostic products. In 2011, we began to distribute our products in the United States through certain independent distributors. We also sell some of our products to pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies. We market our products in certain international markets through a network of independent distributors. We market and sell our products in Italy through Delta s sales representatives and independent agents, who are restricted from selling competing products. We also sell our products in other global markets through a number of independent distributors. Sales personnel are trained to demonstrate our products in the laboratory setting. Our marketing and technical service departments located in Miami Lakes, Florida, Springdale, Arkansas and Pomezia, Italy support their efforts. We participate in a number of industry trade shows, primarily in the United States and Europe. The products we market in the United States are purchased principally by healthcare providers that typically bill third party payors such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for healthcare services provided to their patients. Governmental reimbursement policies are subject to rapid and significant changes in the United States at both the federal and state levels and in other countries. Private third party payors are increasingly negotiating the prices charged for medical products and services. A third party payor may deny reimbursement if it determines that a device was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, was experimental or for other reasons. In Italy, as well as in most other countries in Western Europe, our products are sold predominantly to public hospital laboratories, which are managed by government structures, either directly or indirectly. In most cases, in Italy, our products are sold through a bid process known as tenders for multiple year periods. Due to the efforts exercised by many governments to contain healthcare costs, there has been a constant effort to consolidate laboratory units and, consequently, the bid process continues to become even more competitive. Our business is not considered seasonal in nature, but our European operations may be slightly affected by the general reduction in business activity in Europe during the traditional summer vacation months. Our business is not materially affected by order backlog or working capital issues. Competition . The autoimmune and infectious disease market is comprised of more than 10 competitors. However, many of the competitors in the marketplace utilize contract manufacturing to bring their products to market. We are one of only a small number of competitors in the autoimmune and infectious disease market that vertically integrate the manufacturing process from raw material through production and regulatory approval. We believe this vertical integration also affords us the possibility to expand our business by contract and raw material manufacturing relationships. We compete on a worldwide basis and there are numerous competitors in the specific market sectors in which we offer our products. These competitors range from major pharmaceutical companies to development stage diagnostic companies. Many of these companies are much larger and have significantly greater financial, technical, manufacturing, sales and marketing resources than us. The diagnostics industry has experienced considerable consolidation through mergers and acquisitions in the past several years. At the same time, the competition in test sectors, such as the autoimmune sector, is very fragmented as it is comprised of primarily small companies with no single company possessing a dominant market position. We compete in the marketplace on the basis of the quality of our products, price, instrument design and efficiency, as well as our relationships with customers. Our competitors include, among others, Bio-Rad Laboratories, DiaSorin, INOVA, Alere, Meridian Bioscience and The Binding Site. 5 TABLE OF CONTENTS The in vitro diagnostics market in which we sell many of our products is highly competitive. The market for our products is characterized by continual and rapid technological developments that have resulted in, and will likely continue to result in, substantial improvements in product function and performance. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry requirements and to respond to technological developments on a timely basis either internally or through strategic alliances. Several companies have developed, or are developing, scientific instruments and assays that compete or will compete directly with products we market. Many existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and technological resources, as well as established reputations for success in developing, manufacturing, selling and servicing products, than us. Competitors that are more vertically integrated than us may have more flexibility to compete effectively on price. We expect that existing and new competitors will continue to introduce products or services that are, directly or indirectly, competitive with those that we sell. Such competitors may succeed in developing products that are more functional or less costly than those sold by us and may be more successful in marketing such products. We are seeking to differentiate ourselves from our competitors through our proprietary instruments and reagent systems. We believe our vertically integrated model affords us economic and development advantages over our competition. In bringing new automated systems and reagent products to market, we expect to successfully differentiate our product offering. Through increased reagent system development, we expect to effectively increase our market opportunity and share through these developments. In an effort to supplement our proprietary products, we entered into an agreement with Dynex Technologies in 2008. This agreement allows us to distribute their DSX TM and DS2 TM instrument systems in conjunction with our test kits on a worldwide basis. Personnel . As of March 31, 2014, we had 135 full time employees, of whom 13 were managerial, 83 were technical and manufacturing, 18 were administrative and 21 were sales, marketing and service. Intellectual Property . The technology associated with the design and manufacture of the Mago 4, Mago 4S, Mago Plus and Aptus instruments is not protected by patent registrations or license restrictions. The Aptus instrument is no longer manufactured. Until 2010, the Mago Plus instrument had been our primary product. In the future, we expect that the Mago 4, Mago 4S and other derivations of and upgrades to the Mago will be our primary platforms for marketing our ELISA kits. The acquisition of Drew Scientific brought along 18 patents all surrounding the instrumentation and reagents for the DS360, Ds5, 2280 and the Hemavet for the diabetes and hematology markets. On June 15, 2012, we entered into a use of name license agreement with ERBA Mannheim granting a royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use the name ERBA for an annual fee of one dollar. The license agreement will be terminated upon the earlier of (a) the transfer by ERBA Mannheim to us of all of ERBA Mannheim s rights, title and interest in and to the use of the name and any stylized logos or marks associated with the name (the date that such transfer becomes effective, the Transfer Date ) and (b) such time, if any, as ERBA Mannheim no longer owns, directly or indirectly, shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the issued and outstanding shares of such stock (the Share Threshold Date ). Furthermore, ERBA Mannheim may terminate the license agreement at any time prior to the earlier of the Transfer Date and the Share Threshold Date: (a) upon providing us 180 days prior written notice of its intent to terminate and the date upon which the license agreement shall terminate; or (b) upon providing us 30 days prior written notice of any breach of the license agreement by us, which breach remains uncured at the end of such 30 day period. The termination of this license by ERBA Mannheim could have a material adverse effect on our ability to market our products and on us. Governmental Regulation . The testing, manufacturing and sale of our products are subject to regulation by numerous governmental authorities, principally the FDA. To comply with FDA requirements, we must, among other things, manufacture our products in conformance with the FDA s medical device Quality System Regulation, or good manufacturing practices. Diamedix is listed as a registered establishment with the FDA. The FDA classifies medical devices into three classes (Class I, II or III). Class I devices are subject to general controls, such as good manufacturing practices, and are generally not subject to pre-market notification, or 510(k)s. When required, pre-market notifications must be submitted to the FDA before products can be commercially distributed. Class II devices are subject to the same general controls, may be subject to special 6 TABLE OF CONTENTS controls and/or performance standards and are usually subject to pre-market notification. Class III devices typically require pre-market approvals by the FDA to ensure their safety and effectiveness. All of our products are classified as Class I or II devices. For new devices that require FDA clearance prior to being introduced to the market, a 510(k) relating to the device is submitted to the FDA which provides data to show that the device is substantially equivalent to at least one other device that was introduced into the marketplace prior to May 1976, or one other legally marketed device that is not subject to pre-market approval. Once the 510(k) is submitted to the FDA, the FDA has 90 days to review the submission. During the review period, the FDA may ask for additional information. If the FDA requests additional information, then the review period is stopped until the FDA has received all of the requested additional information, at which point the review period is then restarted. Upon 510(k) clearance by the FDA, the FDA issues a letter assigning a 510(k) number and stating that the FDA has determined that your device is substantially equivalent to legally marketed predicate devices . . . and you may therefore market the device subject to general controls provisions of the [Food, Drug and Cosmetics] Act. The FDA s 510(k) clearance does not provide an approval of the device itself, but instead is a determination by the FDA that the device is much the same as other devices (predicates) already approved by the FDA. FDA issued 510(k) clearance letters are made available in a database administered by the FDA as evidence that the product is approved for sale in the United States. Almost all of the products we sell have received 510(k) clearance. Customers using diagnostic tests for clinical purposes in the United States are additionally regulated under the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments of 1988, or CLIA. CLIA is intended to ensure the quality and reliability of all medical testing in laboratories in the United States by requiring that any healthcare facility in which testing is performed meets specified standards in the areas of personnel qualification, administration, participation in proficiency testing, patient test management, quality control, quality assurance and inspections. The products we sell are also subject to extensive forms of regulation by other governmental authorities in the United States and other countries, including, among other things, the regulation of the approval, manufacturing and testing controls, labeling, marketing and sale of diagnostic devices. As a general matter, foreign regulatory requirements for medical devices are becoming increasingly stringent. In the European Union, a single regulatory approval process has been created and approval is represented by the CE Marking. CE is an abbreviation for Conformite Europeene, or European Conformity, and the CE Marking when placed on a product indicates compliance with the requirements of the applicable regulatory directive. Medical devices properly bearing the CE Marking may be commercially distributed throughout the European Union. CE Marking must be obtained for all medical devices commercially distributed throughout the European Union, even though the medical devices may have already received FDA clearance. In order to be commercially distributed throughout the European Union, certain of our products must bear the CE Marking. All of the products that we currently sell throughout the European Union are in conformity with the applicable CE regulations under the In Vitro Diagnostics Directive. We have also received an ISO 13485:2003 certificate, thereby giving us approval for Europe and Canada. Failure to comply with any governmental regulation can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, interruptions of production, product recalls or suspensions and criminal prosecution. The process of obtaining regulatory approval is rigorous, time consuming and costly. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn if we fail to comply with regulatory standards or if unforeseen problems occur following initial marketing. Domestic and foreign regulations are subject to change and extensive changes in regulation may increase our operating expenses. We are also subject to numerous federal, state and local laws relating to such matters as safe working conditions, manufacturing practices, environmental protection, fire hazard control and disposal of hazardous or potentially hazardous substances. Our employment relations in Italy are governed by numerous regulatory and contractual requirements, including national collective labor agreements and individual employer labor agreements. These arrangements address a number of specific issues affecting our working conditions, including hiring, work time, wages and benefits and termination of employment. We must make significant payments in order to comply with these requirements. 7 TABLE OF CONTENTS Available Information . We file various reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We make available, free of charge, through our Internet web site, these reports, including our annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as soon as reasonably practicable after such documents are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Our Internet web site is www.erbadiagnostics.com. Information contained in our Internet web site is not part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and shall not be incorporated by reference herein. 8 TABLE OF CONTENTS °Item 1A. RISK FACTORS You should carefully consider the risks described below. These and other risks could materially and adversely affect our business, operating results or financial condition. The risks described below are not the only risks we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or other factors that we do not presently perceive to present significant risks to us at this time may also impair our operations. You should also refer to the other information contained or incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. If we are not able to remediate the material weakness relating to our internal control over financial reporting, then the timing and accuracy of our financial reporting could be adversely affected and current and potential stockholders could lose confidence in our financial reporting, which would harm our business and the price of our common stock. As described in Item 9A, Controls and Procedures , included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we disclosed a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting related to inadequate staffing of our financial accounting office. While our Assistant Controller is our Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer, we do not have, among other things, a Chief Financial Officer or a Controller. As a result of our inadequate staffing of our financial accounting office, among other things, at times we have been unable to provide timely account reconciliations. Our remediation efforts to address this material weakness are ongoing and include, among other things, hiring additional qualified personnel and evaluating or undertaking certain improvements to our systems and processes which, if successful, we believe will be sufficient to provide us with the ability to remediate or cure such material weakness in the future. While remediating this material weakness is a very high priority for our management and the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors, we cannot assure you that we will not encounter further instances of breakdowns in our internal control over financial reporting. Public disclosure of this material weakness or a failure to promptly complete our remediation effort could cause our common stock price to fall. Additionally, our inability to maintain the operating effectiveness of the financial accounting office could result in material misstatements to our financial statements or other disclosures or could affect the timing of our financial reporting, all of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. The remaining transactions contemplated by the investment under the stock purchase agreement with ERBA Mannheim may not be consummated on the contemplated terms, in the time frame anticipated, or at all. On April 8, 2011 we entered into, and on June 30, 2011 we consummated the initial transactions under, a stock purchase agreement with ERBA Mannheim, pursuant to which we agreed to sell and issue to ERBA Mannheim an aggregate of 20,000,000 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $15,000,000, or $0.75 per share, and warrants to purchase an additional 20,000,000 shares of our common stock with a five-year term and an exercise price per share equal to $0.75. The warrants are exercisable only to the extent that shares of our common stock have been purchased under the stock purchase agreement. The stock purchase agreement was amended on December 29, 2011 and on October 3, 2012. For purposes of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, references to the stock purchase agreement shall mean the stock purchase agreement as so amended. Through December 31, 2013, under the stock purchase agreement, we have issued and sold to ERBA Mannheim a total of 15,333,334 shares of our common stock for aggregate gross proceeds of $11,500,000. As of December 31, 2013, under the stock purchase agreement, we remained obligated to issue and sell, and ERBA Mannheim remained obligated to purchase, another 4,666,666 shares of our common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $3,500,000, on the date that is 60 days after the date on which a majority of the independent directors on our board of directors determines by vote or written consent that such issuance, sale and purchase shall occur and causes notice thereof to be delivered to ERBA Mannheim. Through December 31, 2013, under the stock purchase agreement, ERBA Mannheim has exercised warrants by paying to us an aggregate exercise price of $450,000 and, in connection therewith, we issued to ERBA Mannheim 600,000 shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2013, under the stock purchase 9 TABLE OF CONTENTS agreement, warrants to purchase a total of 19,400,000 shares of our common stock remained unexercised, and warrants were exercisable for 14,733,334 shares of our common stock. The remaining transactions contemplated by the investment under the stock purchase agreement may not be consummated on the contemplated terms, in the time frame anticipated, or at all. Additionally, the net proceeds of the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement may not provide adequate cash resources to fund our operations or liquidity needs for the reasonably foreseeable future. While the decision to initiate the consummation of the issuance and sale of the remaining shares of our common stock pursuant to the stock purchase agreement is at the discretion of a majority of the independent directors on our board of directors, ERBA Mannheim, while obligated under the stock purchase agreement to do so, will make its own decision whether, or not, to consummate the purchase of the remaining shares of our common stock pursuant to the stock purchase agreement. Additionally, the decision to exercise the warrants will be made by ERBA Mannheim based upon considerations it deems appropriate, which may include, among other things, the future market price of our common stock, which is subject to volatility and a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control. Further, when making any such decision to purchase the remaining shares of our common stock or to exercise the warrants, ERBA Mannheim s interests may conflict with our interests. Further, the warrants may not be exercised, in whole or in part. If any of the foregoing factors were to occur, then we may not have adequate cash resources to fund our operations or liquidity needs for the reasonably foreseeable future. Acquisitions, such as our October 2012 acquisition of Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics, and our efforts to continue integrating these acquired businesses may disrupt our business operations and distract our management and may not proceed as planned. Acquisitions, such as our October 2012 acquisition from Escalon Medical Corporation of Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics, and our efforts to continue integrating these acquired businesses may use significant resources, result in disruptions to our business operations, result in distractions of our management and not proceed as planned and could expose us to unforeseen liabilities. These involve a number of special problems and risks, including, but not limited to: difficulty integrating acquired technologies, products, services, operations, customers and personnel with the existing businesses; diversion of management s attention in connection with integrating the acquired businesses; strain on managerial and operational resources as management tries to oversee larger operations; difficulty implementing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting at the acquired businesses, particularly in light of the decentralized locations in Connecticut, Florida and Texas and previously the United Kingdom; and exposure to unforeseen liabilities of the acquired businesses. As a result of these or other problems and risks, businesses we acquire, such as our October 2012 acquisition from Escalon Medical Corporation of Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics, may not produce the revenues, earnings, cash flows or business synergies that we anticipated, and the products, services or technologies of the acquired businesses may not perform as we expected. As a result, we may incur higher costs and realize lower revenues and earnings than we had anticipated. We may not be able to successfully address these problems, integrate the acquired businesses or generate sufficient revenue to offset the associated costs or other negative effects on our business. Our growth through acquisitions has placed, and is expected to place, significant demands on us. We have grown our business, including through acquisitions. Businesses that grow rapidly often have difficulty managing their growth. Our growth has placed and is expected to continue to place significant demands on our management, on our accounting, financial, information and other systems and on our business. We need to continue recruiting and employing experienced executives and key employees capable of providing the necessary support. In addition, we will need to continue to improve our financial, accounting, information and other systems in order to effectively manage our growth. We cannot assure that our 10 TABLE OF CONTENTS management will be able to manage our growth effectively or successfully, or that our financial, accounting, information or other systems will be able to successfully accommodate our external and internal growth. Our failure to meet these challenges could materially impair our business. We have limited operating revenue and a history of primarily operational losses. If we continue to incur operating losses, then we may not have sufficient liquidity available to meet our needs. For the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded net revenues of $28.3 million and net income of $0.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded net revenues of $19.3 million and net loss of $1.6 million. Our principal source of short-term liquidity is, and during the past three years has been, existing cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities. In connection with our evaluation of our operating results, financial condition and cash position, and specifically considering our results of operations and cash utilization during 2011 and 2010, we enacted various measures to reduce expenses in order to improve future cash flow. As a result, our operating results improved in 2012 and 2013 from the operating results achieved during 2010 and 2011. During 2011, we entered into the stock purchase agreement with ERBA Mannheim. On March 1, 2013, we entered into the line of credit with Citibank, N.A. For the long-term, we intend to utilize principally existing cash and cash equivalents, as well as internally generated funds, which we anticipate will be derived primarily from our operations as well as possible sources of debt and equity financings, including, without limitation, from the line of credit and the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement. There is, however, no assurance that existing cash and cash equivalents will, in the short- or long-term, satisfy all of our cash requirements and fund any losses from operations. Furthermore, there can be no assurance that we will be able to operate on a profitable basis or internally generate funds from our operations. If existing cash and cash equivalents are insufficient to finance operations, if we are unable to operate on a profitable basis or internally generate funds from our operations, or if existing and possible future sources of liquidity described above, including, without limitation, from the line of credit or the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement, are insufficient, then we may be required to curtail or reduce our operations. There can be no assurance that, if we seek to raise additional funds through issuing debt or equity securities or incurring indebtedness, any such additional funds would be available on acceptable terms or at all. If we become non-compliant with the continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT again, our common stock could be delisted from the NYSE MKT. On April 17, 2013, we received a letter from the NYSE MKT, or the Exchange, stating that the Exchange determined that we were not in compliance with Sections 134 and 1101 of the Exchange s Company Guide due to our failure to timely file our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. On May 10, 2013, the Exchange notified us that it accepted our plan of compliance and granted us an extension until July 16, 2013, or the Plan Period, to regain compliance with the continued listing standards of the Company Guide. We successfully filed our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012 on June 14, 2013 and, accordingly, we regained compliance with the continued listing standards of the Company Guide prior to the end of the Plan Period. On May 17, 2013, we received another letter from the Exchange, stating that the Exchange determined that we were not in compliance with Sections 134 and 1101 of the Company Guide due to our failure to timely file our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 with the Securities and Exchange Commission. On June 19, 2013, the Exchange notified us that it accepted our plan of compliance and granted us an extension until August 15, 2013, also a Plan Period, to regain compliance with the continued listing standards of the Company Guide. We successfully filed our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2013 on August 9, 2013 and, accordingly, we regained compliance with the continued listing standards of the Company Guide prior to the end of the Plan Period. Pursuant to Section 1009(h) of the Company Guide, if we, within twelve (12) months of the end of any Plan Period (including any early termination of a Plan Period under the procedures set forth in Section 1009(g) of the Company Guide), are again determined to be in non-compliance with the continued listing standards, then the Exchange staff will examine the relationship between the two incidents of falling below continued listing standards and re-evaluate our method of recovery from the first incident. In such an instance, the Exchange 11 TABLE OF CONTENTS will then take appropriate action, which, depending upon the circumstances, may include truncating the procedures set forth in Section 1009 of the Company Guide or immediately initiating proceedings to delist our common stock from the NYSE MKT. Concerns regarding the Italian government fiscal and debt crises could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. A substantial portion of our accounts receivable are concentrated in Italy and may be affected by the recent fiscal and debt crises facing the Italian government. As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, $4.6 million and $4.4 million, respectively, of our total net accounts receivable were due from customers of our Italian subsidiary, the majority of which are located in Italy. Of our total net accounts receivable, 24% at December 31, 2013 and 27% at December 31, 2012 were due from hospitals and laboratories controlled by the Italian government. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts, particularly in Italy where payment cycles are longer than in the United States, for potential credit losses based on the age of the accounts receivable and the results of our periodic credit evaluations of our customers financial condition. Recently, the Italian government has been experiencing severe fiscal and debt crises and a recession, including its increasingly uncertain ability to service its sovereign debt obligations, caused in part by the declining global markets and economic conditions. Accordingly, we are subject to certain economic, business and, in particular, credit risk if our customers located in Italy which are hospitals or laboratories controlled by the Italian government do not pay amounts owed to us, extend payment cycles even further or ask us to accept a lower payment amount than is owed to us. Our current allowances for doubtful accounts may not be adequate and we may be required to make additional allowances, which would adversely affect, and could materially adversely affect, our operating results in the period in which the determination or allowance is or was made. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows in the near term. Additionally, we periodically receive payments based upon negotiated agreements with governmental regions in Italy, acting on behalf of hospitals located in the region, in satisfaction of previously outstanding accounts receivable balances. We may anticipate collection of these amounts through a payment as described above, and, therefore, not provide an allowance for doubtful accounts for these amounts. Additional payments by governmental regions in Italy are possible, and, as a result, we may consider the potential receipt of those payments in determining our allowance for doubtful accounts. If contemplated payments are not received, if existing agreements are not complied with or cancelled or if we require additional allowances, then our operating results could be materially adversely affected during the period in which the determination to increase the allowance for doubtful accounts is or was made. If we fail to collect our accounts receivable, our operating results could be materially adversely affected. We maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, our accounts receivable were $7.0 million and $6.6 million, respectively, and our allowance for doubtful accounts was $1.1 million and $1.0 million, respectively. There is no assurance that we will collect our outstanding accounts receivable or that our allowance for doubtful accounts will be adequate. The failure to collect outstanding receivables, whether relating to Italy, the United States or elsewhere, could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. If the financial condition of our customers was to deteriorate, resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, then we may be required to make additional allowances, which would adversely affect our operating results in the period in which the determination or allowance is or was made. 12 TABLE OF CONTENTS The future success of our business depends on our development, manufacture and marketing of new products. Our future success is largely dependent upon our ability to develop, manufacture and market commercially successful new scientific instruments and assays. Delays in the development, manufacture or marketing of new products will impact our operating results, financial condition and cash flows. Each of the steps in the development, manufacture and marketing of our products, as well as the process taken as a whole, involves significant periods of time and expense. There can be no assurance that: any of our products presently under development, if and when fully developed and tested, will perform as expected, we will obtain necessary regulatory approvals in a timely manner, if at all, or we can successfully and profitably produce and market any of our products. Any of the above factors may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Our strategic initiatives, including our development and future commercial release of new products such as the next generation ELISA platform the LISA XL, and the Hb Vario instrument system, may not be successful. The development and marketing of new or enhanced products, including, without limitation, the LISA XL and Hb Vario instrument systems, is a complex and uncertain process. Accordingly, we cannot be certain that: the LISA XL or the Hb Vario instrument systems will perform as expected, the LISA XL or the Hb Vario instrument systems will enable us to expand the menu of test kits we offer, the LISA XL or the Hb Vario instrument systems will be a source of revenue growth for us, we will receive financial benefits or achieve improved operating results as a result of the future commercial release of the LISA XL or the Hb Vario instrument systems, we will be successful in the marketing of the LISA XL or the Hb Vario instrument systems, or customers will integrate the LISA XL or the Hb Vario instrument systems into their operations as readily as expected. Any of the above factors may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. Our future success depends on portfolio expansion, global geographic expansion, market segmentation and market focus strategies, and the development of new markets. Our success depends, in large part, on expanding our portfolio of products and on our ability to broaden sales of our existing products both in the United States and globally. Through our legacy operations, we have historically developed, manufactured and marketed diagnostic test kits, or assays, and automated instrument systems that are used to aid in the detection of disease primarily in the areas of autoimmune, infectious diseases and clinical chemistry. Our 2012 acquisition of Drew Scientific now allows us to design, manufacture and distribute instrument systems for blood cell counting and blood analysis, to sell diabetic testing products including the DS5 instrument, dispenser and associated reagent kit, which measure long-term glucose control in diabetic patients (HbA1c), and to offer a broad array of equipment for use in the field of human and veterinary hematology. Additionally, our 2012 acquisition of JAS Diagnostics now allows us to manufacture a broad range of liquid stable, diagnostics chemistry reagents used for in vitro diagnostics testing as well as to sell many general chemistry reagents that can be used on numerous open system chemistry instrument analyzers. In an effort to penetrate the market more effectively, we intend to continue expanding our portfolio of products in the areas of autoimmune, infectious diseases, clinical chemistry, hematology and diabetes testing, as well as continue increasing our sales and marketing activities in the United States and throughout the world. 13 TABLE OF CONTENTS Our success also largely depends on the introduction and acceptance by hospitals, clinics and laboratories of our new diagnostic products and our ability to broaden sales of our existing products to current and new customers. In an effort to penetrate the market more effectively, we intend to expand our sales and marketing activities by, among other things: increasing our sales force, expanding our promotional activities, developing additional third party strategic distributorships, and participating in trade shows. There is no assurance that any of the activities or programs described above or any other activities or programs will be successful. The failure of any such activities or programs could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Our own manufacture of scientific instruments, reagents and test kits may not provide us with anticipated cost savings or competitive advantages. We have sought to differentiate ourselves from our competitors through our proprietary instrument systems. While some of our competitors offer proprietary instruments, other competitors use third parties to manufacture these instruments for them. We manufacture our Mago 4 and Mago 4S instruments at Delta, our wholly-owned subsidiary in Italy. Additionally, our wholly-owned subsidiary located in Springdale, Arkansas, ImmunoVision, produces certain autoimmune reagents and our wholly-owned subsidiary located in Miami Lakes, Florida, Diamedix, produces diagnostic test kits. There can be no assurance that we will realize cost savings or competitive advantages from our own production of scientific instruments, reagents or test kits. We may not be able to increase the volume of our reagent production to meet increased demand. Our reagent rental program in which customers make reagent kit purchase commitments with us that typically last for a period of three to five years and our sales of these reagent kits are principal sources of revenue for us. If the demand for reagent kits increases, there can be no assurance that we will be able to increase the volume of our reagent kit production in order to meet such demand. Any failure to meet the demand for reagent kits could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Our research and development expenditures may not result in commercially successful products. We devote substantial resources to research and development to update and improve our existing products, as well as to develop new products and technologies. During 2013, we incurred approximately $1.9 million on our research and development efforts. We may in the future increase the amounts we spend on research and development depending upon, among other things: the outcome of clinical testing of products under development, delays or changes in government required testing or approval procedures, technological and competitive developments, strategic marketing decisions, and liquidity. As a result, our research and development expenditures may adversely impact our earnings and cash flows in the short term. Additionally, there is no assurance that: our research and development expenditures will result in the development of new products or product enhancements, we will successfully complete products currently under development, 14 TABLE OF CONTENTS we will obtain regulatory approval for any such products, or any approved product will be produced in commercial quantities, at reasonable costs, and be successfully marketed. The markets for our products are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. The markets for our products are highly competitive and are characterized by continual and rapid technological developments that have resulted, and will likely continue to result, in substantial improvements in product function and performance. Our success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate changes in technology and industry requirements and to respond to technological developments on a timely basis, either internally or through strategic alliances. Several companies have developed, or are developing, scientific instruments and assays that compete, or will compete, directly with products marketed by us. Many existing and potential competitors have substantially greater financial, marketing, research and technological resources, as well as established reputations for success in developing, manufacturing, selling and servicing products, than us. Competitors that are more vertically integrated than us may have more flexibility to compete effectively on price. We expect that existing and new competitors will continue to introduce products or services that are, directly or indirectly, competitive with those sold by us. Such competitors may succeed in developing products that are more functional or less costly than those sold by us and may be more successful in marketing such products. These and other changes and innovations in the rapidly changing medical technology market may negatively affect the sales of the products we market. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in this market or that technology developments by our competitors will not render our current or future products or technologies obsolete. If we fail to effectively compete or adapt to changing technology, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Our success depends on key personnel, the loss of whom could disrupt our business. Our business is dependent on the active participation of our principal executive officers. The loss of the services of any of these individuals could adversely affect our business and future prospects. In addition, our success is dependent on our ability to retain and attract additional qualified management, scientists, engineers, developers and regulatory and other personnel. Competition for such talent is intense and there can be no assurance that we will be able to attract and retain such personnel. Currently, our Interim Chief Executive Officer is the President International Business of ERBA Mannheim, who does not receive any compensation from us for his services as our Interim Chief Executive Officer. Our business is dependent on third party distributors . Although our direct sales force consummates the majority of our sales in the United States, we also engage third party distributors to sell our products. In Italy, our products are sold through Delta s sales representatives and independent agents. Our international sales outside of Italy are through third party distributors. There is no assurance that third party distributors or independent sales personnel will achieve acceptable levels of sales or that, if any of our existing arrangements expire or terminate, we will be able to replace any distributors or sales personnel on terms advantageous to us, or at all. Further, there is no assurance that we will be able to expand our distribution network by adding additional distributors or sales personnel. If third party distributors or independent sales personnel cease to promote our products, or if we are unable to make acceptable arrangements with distributors or sales personnel in other markets, our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition could be materially adversely affected. We depend on our proprietary rights and cannot be certain of their confidentiality and protection. Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to protect our current and future technologies and products and to defend our intellectual property rights. The technology associated with the design and manufacture of the Mago 4 and Mago 4S instruments is not protected by patent registrations or license restrictions. There can be no assurance that our competitors will not gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary and confidential technologies or that they will not independently develop similar or competing trade secrets and technologies. If others develop competing instruments or other products, then this could erode our competitive advantage and materially harm our business. 15 TABLE OF CONTENTS We also rely on trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation. We use confidentiality agreements with licensees, suppliers, employees and consultants to protect our trade secrets, unpatented proprietary know-how and continuing technological innovation. There can be no assurance that these parties will not breach their agreements with us. We also cannot be certain that we will have adequate remedies for any breach. Disputes may arise concerning the ownership of intellectual property or the applicability of confidentiality agreements. Furthermore, we cannot be sure that our trade secrets and proprietary technology will not otherwise become known or that our competitors will not independently develop similar or competing trade secrets and proprietary technology. We also cannot be sure, if we do not receive patents for products arising from research, that we will be able to maintain the confidentiality of information relating to our products. Third parties may claim that we infringe their proprietary rights, which may prevent us from manufacturing and selling some of our products or result in claims for substantial damages . Technology-based companies are often very litigious and are often subject to unforeseen litigation. Therefore, although our business philosophy is to respect intellectual property rights, we face the risk of adverse claims and litigation alleging infringement of intellectual property rights belonging to others. These claims could result in costly litigation and could divert management s and technical personnel s attention from other matters. The outcome of any claim is difficult to predict because of the uncertainties inherent in litigation. In addition, regardless of the merits of any infringement claims, these claims could cause us to lose our right to develop our discoveries or commercialize our products in certain markets or could require us to pay monetary damages or royalties to license proprietary rights from third parties. Furthermore, we cannot be certain that we would be able to obtain these licenses on terms we believe to be acceptable. As a result, an adverse determination in a judicial, administrative or other similar proceeding or failure to obtain necessary licenses could have a material and adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. There are inherent uncertainties involved in estimates, judgments and assumptions used in the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Any changes in estimates, judgments and assumptions used could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position and operating results. The consolidated financial statements included in the periodic reports we file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including those included as part of the Annual Report on Form 10-K, are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP involves making estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets such as our hepatitis technology product license), liabilities and related reserves, revenues, expenses and income. This includes estimates, judgments and assumptions for assessing the recoverability of our goodwill and other intangible assets, pursuant to applicable accounting guidance. If any estimates, judgments or assumptions change in the future, we may be required to record additional expenses or impairment charges. Any resulting expense or impairment loss would be recorded as a charge against our earnings and could have a material adverse impact on our financial condition and operating results. Estimates, judgments and assumptions are inherently subject to change in the future, and any such changes could result in corresponding changes to the amounts of assets (including goodwill and other intangible assets), liabilities, revenues, expenses and income. Any such changes could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including, among others, those relating to: product returns, allowances for doubtful accounts, inventories and related reserves, goodwill and other intangible assets, income and other tax accruals, deferred tax asset valuation allowances, 16 TABLE OF CONTENTS discounts and allowances, stock based compensation, warranty obligations, and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our assumptions and estimates may, however, prove to have been incorrect and our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. While we believe the assumptions and estimates we make are reasonable, any changes to our assumptions or estimates, or any actual results which differ from our assumptions or estimates, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. During the third quarter of 2007, we determined there was sufficient indication to require us to assess, in accordance with applicable accounting guidance, whether any portion of our goodwill balance, which was recorded in both ImmunoVision and Delta, was impaired. Based primarily upon our estimate of forecasted discounted cash flows for each of these subsidiaries and our market capitalization, we determined that the carrying amount of the goodwill at each of Delta and ImmunoVision was in excess of its respective fair value. We concluded that all $4.7 million of the goodwill recorded at Delta and $1.2 million of the $2.1 million of goodwill recorded at ImmunoVision was impaired. As a result, we recorded a noncash goodwill impairment charge to operations totaling $5.9 million during the third quarter of 2007. Additionally, in October 2012, with the acquisition of Drew Scientific, we recorded goodwill of $2.6 million. No impairment charge was recorded for the goodwill at ImmunoVision or Drew Scientific for 2013 or 2012. However, a decline in our market capitalization or sales by ImmunoVision or Drew Scientific could require us to record impairment charges in future periods for the goodwill recorded for ImmunoVision or Drew Scientific, as the case may be, which would have a material adverse effect on our financial position and operating results. The trend towards consolidation in the diagnostics industry may adversely affect us. The diagnostics industry has experienced considerable consolidation through mergers and acquisitions in the past several years. This consolidation trend may result in the remaining companies having greater financial resources and technological capabilities, thereby intensifying competition in the industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Consolidation of our customers or the formation of group purchasing organizations could result in increased pricing pressure that could adversely affect our operating results. The health care industry has undergone significant consolidation resulting in increased purchasing leverage for customers and consequently increased pricing pressures on our business. Additionally, some of our customers have become affiliated with group purchasing organizations. Group purchasing organizations typically offer members price discounts on laboratory supplies and equipment if they purchase a bundled group of one supplier s products, which results in a reduction in the number of manufacturers selected to supply products to the group purchasing organization and increases the group purchasing organization s ability to influence its members buying decisions. Further consolidation among customers or their continued affiliation with group purchasing organizations may result in significant pricing pressures and correspondingly reduce the gross margins of our business or may cause our customers to reduce their purchases of our products, thereby adversely affecting our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Additionally, in Italy, and most other countries in Western Europe, our products are sold predominantly to public hospital laboratories, which are managed by government structures, either directly or indirectly. In most cases, our products are sold through a bid process known as tenders for multiple year periods. Due to the efforts exercised by many governments to contain healthcare costs, there has been a constant effort to consolidate laboratory units and, consequently, the bid process continues to become even more competitive. The containment of healthcare costs, consolidation of laboratory units or increase in the competitiveness of the bid process could adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. 17 TABLE OF CONTENTS Reimbursement policies of third parties could affect the pricing and demand for our products. Our profitability may be materially adversely affected by changes in reimbursement policies of governmental and private third party payors. The products we market are purchased principally by healthcare providers that typically bill third party payors such as governmental programs (e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care plans, for healthcare services provided to their patients. Governmental reimbursement policies are subject to rapid and significant changes in the United States, at both the federal and state levels, and in other countries. Private third party payors are increasingly negotiating the prices charged for medical products and services. There can be no assurance that healthcare providers will not respond to such pressures by substituting competitors products for our products. A third party payor may deny reimbursement if it determines that a device was not used in accordance with cost-effective treatment methods, was experimental or for other reasons. There can be no assurance that our products will qualify for reimbursement by governmental programs in accordance with guidelines established by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, by state government payors or by commercial insurance carriers, or that reimbursement will be available in other countries. We may face significant uncertainty due to government healthcare reform. Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to fundamental changes. We anticipate that the current administration, Congress and certain state legislatures will continue to review and assess the healthcare system and payment methods with an objective of ultimately reducing healthcare costs and expanding access. During March 2010, Congress approved, and the President signed into law, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act, which have made and are expected to continue to make significant changes to the healthcare industry. The uncertainties regarding the ultimate features of healthcare reform initiatives and their enactment and implementation, including with respect to the recently approved federal legislation, may have an adverse effect on our customers purchasing decisions regarding our products. At this time, we cannot predict what additional healthcare reform proposals will be adopted or what impact the recently approved federal legislation may have on our business and operations. Any impact of the recently approved federal legislation, or additional healthcare reform proposals, may be adverse on our operating results and financial condition. Cost containment measures could affect our ability to sell our products. Various legislative proposals, including proposals relating to the cost containment of healthcare products and the reimbursement policies of governmental and private third party payors, could materially impact the pricing and sale of our products. Reimbursement policies may not include our products. Even if reimbursement policies of third parties grant reimbursement status for a product, we cannot be sure that these reimbursement policies will remain in effect. Limits on reimbursement could reduce the demand for our products. The unavailability or inadequacy of third party reimbursement for our products could reduce or possibly eliminate demand for our products. We are unable to predict whether governmental authorities will enact additional legislation or regulation which will affect third party coverage and reimbursement that reduces demand for our products. Compliance with governmental regulation is critical to our business. The products we sell are subject to extensive regulation by numerous governmental and regulatory authorities in the United States, principally the FDA, and other countries. Such regulation includes the regulation of the approval, manufacturing and testing controls, labeling, marketing and sale of diagnostic devices. Failure to comply with these governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, interruptions of production and criminal prosecution. The process of obtaining regulatory approval is rigorous, time consuming and costly. There is no assurance that necessary approvals will be attained on a timely basis, if at all, or at the anticipated cost. In addition, product approvals can be withdrawn if we fail to comply with regulatory standards or if unforeseen problems occur following initial marketing. In addition, as a general matter, foreign regulatory requirements for medical devices are becoming increasingly stringent. CE Marking must be obtained for all medical devices commercially distributed in the 18 TABLE OF CONTENTS European Union, even though the medical devices may have already received FDA clearance. In order to be commercially distributed throughout the European Union, certain of our products must bear the CE Marking. All of the products that we currently sell throughout the European Union are in conformity with the applicable CE regulations under the In Vitro Diagnostics Directive. However, if in the future we lose the authorization to use the CE Marking, we may not be able to sell our products in the European Union, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results and financial condition. Domestic and foreign regulations are subject to change, and extensive changes in regulation may increase our operating expenses. The evolving and complex nature of regulatory requirements, the broad authority and discretion of regulatory authorities and the extremely high level of regulatory oversight result in a continuing possibility that we may be adversely affected by regulatory actions despite our efforts to maintain compliance with regulatory requirements. Delays in obtaining, or the inability to obtain, necessary domestic or foreign regulatory approvals, failures to comply with applicable regulatory requirements or extensive changes in regulation could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. We are subject to a number of regulatory and contractual restrictions with respect to our European subsidiary. Delta, our wholly-owned subsidiary, is located in Italy. Our employment relations in Italy are governed by numerous regulatory and contractual requirements, including, among other things, national collective labor agreements and individual employer labor agreements. These arrangements address a number of specific issues affecting our working conditions, including, without limitation, hiring, work time, wages and benefits and termination of employment. The cost of complying with these requirements is substantial and may materially adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Additionally, Delta must comply with minimum capital requirements established by Italian law. From time to time, we may utilize cash to assist Delta in maintaining its compliance with these capital requirements. There can be no assurance that Delta will be able to maintain its compliance with these capital requirements with or without our cash assistance. Under certain circumstances, during the time when Delta is utilizing cash assistance that we provide, the amount of such cash assistance may not be available for our use in other portions of our business. Furthermore, any cash assistance that we provide to Delta may not be repaid or distributed to us when expected, or at all. Any of these risks may adversely affect our liquidity or financial condition. Our products could fail to perform according to specification or prove to be unreliable, which could damage our customer relationships and industry reputation and result in lawsuits and loss of sales. Our customers require demanding specifications for product performance and reliability. Because the products we market are complex and often use state-of-the-art components, processes and techniques, undetected errors and design flaws may occur. Product defects result in higher product service, warranty and replacement costs and may cause serious damage to our customer relationships and industry reputation, all of which may negatively impact our sales and business. We may be subject to lawsuits if any of the products we market fails to operate properly or causes any ailment to be undiagnosed or misdiagnosed. We may be exposed to product liability claims, and there can be no assurance of adequate insurance. Like all diagnostics companies, the testing, manufacturing and marketing of our products may expose us to product liability and other claims resulting from their use. If any such claims against us are successful, we may be required to make significant compensation payments and suffer the associated adverse publicity. Even unsuccessful claims could result in the expenditure of funds in litigation and the diversion of management time and resources. We believe that we maintain an adequate amount of product liability insurance, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will cover all existing and future claims or that we will be able to maintain existing coverage or obtain additional coverage at reasonable rates. If a claim is not covered or if our coverage is insufficient, we may incur significant liability payments that would have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results or financial condition. 19 TABLE OF CONTENTS Damages to or disruptions at our facilities could adversely impact our ability to effectively operate our business. A portion of our facilities, as well as our corporate headquarters and other critical business functions, are located in Miami Lakes, Florida an area subject to hurricane casualty risk. Although we have certain limited protection afforded by insurance, our business and earnings could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major windstorm. Political and economic instability and foreign currency fluctuations may adversely affect the revenues generated by our foreign operations. We have a significant wholly-owned subsidiary, Delta, located in Italy. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, Delta represented 18% and 26%, respectively, of our net revenues. In addition, our current business plan includes a goal of expanding our product reach on a global basis and specifically in key regions in Europe, South America and Asia. Conducting an international business inherently involves a number of difficulties, risks and uncertainties, such as: export and trade restrictions, inconsistent and changing regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, cultural issues, longer payment cycles, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political instability, local economic downturns, seasonal reductions in business activity in Europe during the traditional summer vacation months, and potentially adverse tax consequences. Any of the above factors may materially and adversely affect our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, 18% and 26%, respectively, of our net revenues were generated in currencies other than the United States dollar, and we anticipate that this percentage may increase in future periods as a result of our efforts to expand our product reach internationally. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar affect our operating results. For instance, if the United States dollar strengthens relative to foreign currency, then our earnings generated in foreign currency will, in effect, decrease when converted into United States dollars, which could have a material and adverse effect on our operating results and cash flows. We do not use financial derivatives to hedge exchange rate fluctuations. Our indebtedness may impact our financial condition and results of operations and the terms of our indebtedness may limit our activities. On March 1, 2013, we closed down our previously existing line of credit with City National Bank of Florida and we entered into a new loan agreement with Citibank, N.A., which provides for a secured, revolving credit facility of up to $2,000,000. As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $1,905,000 of indebtedness outstanding under the revolving line of credit pursuant to the loan agreement into which we entered with Citibank, N.A. Subject to applicable restrictions in the loan agreement, we may incur indebtedness in the future. Our level of indebtedness will have several important effects on our future operations, including, without limitation, that we may be required to use a portion of our cash flow from operations for the payment of principal and interest due on our outstanding indebtedness, that our outstanding indebtedness and leverage will increase the impact of negative changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as 20 TABLE OF CONTENTS competitive pressures, and that our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures or general corporate purposes may be impacted. Our indebtedness outstanding under the line of credit bears interest at a floating rate tied to LIBOR. Accordingly, if interest rates increase, whether generally or as the result of our lender s requirement, then the amount of the interest payments on our floating rate indebtedness will also increase. General economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our operations, many of which are beyond our control, may affect our future performance. As a result, these and other factors may affect our ability to make principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. Amounts outstanding under the revolving line of credit with Citibank, N.A. are collateralized by all of our assets and all of the assets of our wholly-owned subsidiaries located in the United States Diamedix, ImmunoVision and Drew Scientific. In addition, each of Diamedix, ImmunoVision and Drew Scientific has guaranteed the repayment of amounts outstanding under the revolving line of credit. Further, Transasia, our indirect parent company, has also guaranteed the repayment of amounts outstanding under the revolving line of credit. The loan agreement, pursuant to which the revolving line of credit with Citibank, N.A. has been made available to us, contains certain positive and negative restrictive covenants which will affect, and in certain respects will limit or prohibit, our ability to, among other things, create or permit any liens on our assets, engage in business activities substantially different than those in which we are currently engaged, enter into certain transactions in which we are not the surviving entity, transfer or sell our assets other than in the ordinary course of business, enter into certain obligations as surety or guarantor, or permit a change of control. In addition, the loan agreement requires us to maintain an enumerated level of a capital base and to maintain an enumerated leverage ratio. Our potential acquisitions may reduce our earnings, be difficult for us to combine into our operations or require us to obtain additional financing. In the ordinary course of our business, we evaluate potential business acquisition opportunities that we anticipate will provide new product and market opportunities, benefit from and maximize our existing assets and add critical mass. We often incur significant expenses in connection with our evaluation of potential business acquisition opportunities. However, we may not be successful in finding or consummating any acquisitions, and any acquisitions we make may expose us to additional risks and may have a material adverse effect on our operating results. The evaluation of acquisition opportunities may divert management s attention from our operations, and any acquisitions we make may fail to accomplish our strategic objectives, may not be successfully combined with our operations or may not perform as expected. In addition, although we generally seek acquisitions that we believe will be accretive to our per share earnings, based on current acquisition prices in the industry, our acquisitions could initially reduce our earnings and add significant intangible assets and related amortization charges. Our acquisition strategy may require us to obtain debt or equity financing, resulting in increased leverage or increased debt obligations, as compared to equity, and the dilution of our stockholders ownership of us. We may not be able to finance acquisitions on terms satisfactory to us. A significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents are held at a single brokerage firm. A significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents are presently held at one international securities brokerage firm. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk if this brokerage firm is unable to repay the balance in the account or deliver our securities or if the brokerage firm should become bankrupt or otherwise insolvent. Any of the above events could have a material and adverse effect on our business and financial condition. ERBA Mannheim may be deemed to control our company. ERBA Mannheim beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 82.4% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock. Further, assuming the full consummation of the investment under the stock purchase agreement, as amended, including the full exercise of the warrant, ERBA Mannheim would currently beneficially own, directly or indirectly, approximately 88.7% of the issued and outstanding shares of our 21 TABLE OF CONTENTS common stock. Under our certificate of incorporation, on issues for which our stockholders are eligible to vote, the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares represented at a meeting, in person or by proxy, and entitled to vote is required to approve an action. Consequently, ERBA Mannheim, without the consent of any of our other stockholders, can approve actions that require stockholder approval and elect directors acceptable to them based on their share ownership. Suresh Vazirani, the Chief Executive Officer of ERBA Mannheim, currently serves as executive Chairman of our Board of Directors, Sanjiv Suri, the President International Business of ERBA Mannheim, currently serves as the Interim Chief Executive Officer of our company as well as a member of our Board of Directors, and Kishore Kris Dudani, the Marketing and Business Development Representative South, Central and Latin America of ERBA Mannheim, currently serves as a member of our board of directors. Transasia Bio-Medicals Ltd. is the parent company of ERBA Mannheim. We have limited rights to the ERBA name and may be required to change our name in the future. As approved by our stockholders at our 2012 annual meeting of stockholders held in June 2012, and as previously approved by our board of directors, we changed the name of our company from IVAX Diagnostics, Inc. to ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. In connection with our name change, on June 15, 2012, we entered into a use of name license agreement with ERBA Mannheim granting us a royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use the name ERBA for an annual fee of one dollar. The license agreement will be terminated upon the earlier of the transfer by ERBA Mannheim to us of all of ERBA Mannheim s rights, title and interest in and to the use of the name and any stylized logos or marks associated with the name, or otherwise known as the transfer date, and such time, if any, as ERBA Mannheim no longer owns, directly or indirectly, shares of our common stock representing more than 50% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, or otherwise known as the share threshold date. Furthermore, ERBA Mannheim has the right to terminate the license agreement at any time prior to the earlier of the transfer date and the share threshold date, upon providing us with 180 days prior written notice of its intent to terminate and the date upon which the license agreement shall terminate or upon providing us with 30 days prior written notice of any breach of the license agreement by us, which breach remains uncured at the end of such 30 day period. There can be no assurance that ERBA Mannheim will not terminate this license agreement. Upon termination of the license agreement, we would be required to take all steps reasonably necessary to change our name as soon as practicable. The termination of this license agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results or financial condition. Our common stock has a limited trading volume, and a number of internal and external factors have caused, and may continue to cause, the market price of our common stock to be volatile. Our common stock has been listed and traded on the NYSE MKT (formerly known as the NYSE Amex, and prior to that the American Stock Exchange) since March 15, 2001. Because ERBA Mannheim beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 82.4% of the issued and outstanding shares of our common stock, we have a limited non-affiliate market capitalization. As a result, our common stock has a limited trading volume, which may make it more difficult for our stockholders to sell their shares, and which may make the trading price of our common stock subject to price volatility. Additionally, the market prices for securities of companies engaged in the healthcare field, including us, have been volatile. Many factors, including those over which we have no control, may have a significant impact on the future market price of our common stock, including, without limitation: announcements by us and our competitors of technological innovations, new commercial products or significant contracts or business acquisitions, period-to-period changes in our financial results, market acceptance of existing or new products, healthcare regulatory reform, and changes in general conditions in the economy, financial markets or healthcare industry. 22 TABLE OF CONTENTS The issuance of preferred stock or additional shares of common stock could adversely affect the rights of the holders of shares of our common stock. Our board of directors is authorized to issue up to 5,000,000 shares of preferred stock without any further action on the part of our stockholders. Currently, we have no shares of preferred stock outstanding. In the event that we issue preferred stock in the future that has preference over our common stock with respect to payment of dividends or upon our liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the rights of holders of shares of our common stock may be adversely affected. In addition, the ability of our board of directors to issue shares of preferred stock without any further action on the part of our stockholders may impede a takeover of us and may prevent a transaction that is favorable to our stockholders. 23 TABLE OF CONTENTS CAUTIONARY STATEMENT CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS We have made forward-looking statements, which are subject to risks and uncertainties, in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Forward-looking statements may be preceded by, followed by or otherwise include the words may, will, believes, expects, anticipates, intends, plans, estimates, projects, could, would, should, or similar expressions or statements that certain events or conditions may occur. Actual results, performance or achievements could differ materially from those contemplated, expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on the information currently available to it and are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the risks and uncertainties associated with: our ability to generate positive cash flow or otherwise improve our liquidity, whether from existing operations, strategic initiatives or possible future sources of liquidity, including, without limitation, from the line of credit or the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement, issuing debt or equity securities, incurring indebtedness or curtailing or reducing our operations; the remaining transactions contemplated by the investment under the stock purchase agreement may not be consummated on the contemplated terms, in the time frame anticipated, or at all; the net proceeds of the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement may not provide adequate cash resources to fund our operations or liquidity needs for the reasonably foreseeable future; our ability to achieve or sustain profitability from our operations or otherwise secure funds to provide the basis for our long-term liquidity; our broad discretion in our use of the net proceeds from the investment contemplated by the stock purchase agreement; the warrants may not be exercised, in whole or in part; the decision to exercise the warrants will be made by ERBA Mannheim based upon considerations it deems appropriate, which may include, among other things, the future market price of our common stock, which is subject to volatility and a number of other factors, many of which are beyond our control, and, when making any such decision to exercise the warrants, ERBA Mannheim s interests may conflict with our interests; our ability to pay when due the principal and interest on our outstanding indebtedness under the revolving line of credit; our ability to operate our business under the restrictions imposed by the positive and negative covenants to which we are subject under the loan agreement in connection with the revolving line of credit; our ability to remediate our material weakness relating to our internal control over financial reporting; our ability to maintain compliance with the continued listing standards of the NYSE MKT, the failure of which could result in our common stock being delisted from the NYSE MKT; economic, competitive, political, governmental and other factors affecting us and our operations, markets and products; the success of technological, strategic and business initiatives, including our automation strategy; our ability to successfully launch and market the LISA XL and Hb Vario instrument systems; the impact on our financial condition and operating results of making or changing judgments and estimates as a result of future design changes to, or the development of improved instrument versions of, the LISA XL or Hb Vario instrument systems or as a result of future demand for the LISA XL or Hb Vario instrument systems; 24 TABLE OF CONTENTS the ability of the LISA XL or Hb Vario instrument systems to be a source of revenue growth for us; our ability to receive financial benefits or achieve improved operating results as a result of the commercial release of the LISA XL or Hb Vario instrument systems; the ability of the LISA XL or Hb Vario instrument systems to be a factor in our growth; the ability of the LISA XL or Hb Vario instrument systems to expand the menu of test kits we offer; our ability to successfully market the DSX TM and DS2 TM instrument systems from Dynex Technologies in conjunction with our test kits on a worldwide basis; our ability to successfully market the Ds5 instrument system for diabetes testing; our ability to successfully market the Ds360 instrument system for diabetes testing; our ability to successfully market the D3 instrument system for hematology testing; our ability to successfully market the 2280 instrument system for hematology testing; our ability to successfully market generic clinical chemistry reagents; our ability to expand the menu of test kits that we offer to include other complementary infectious disease or autoimmune testing sectors or otherwise; our ability to expand our portfolio of products; our ability to expand geographically; our ability to successfully execute market segmentation and market focus strategies; the response of our current customer base to an expansion of our menu of test kits; our ability to achieve organic growth; our ability to identify or consummate acquisitions of businesses or products; our ability to integrate acquired businesses or products, including, without limitation, our ability to continue integrating Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics; acquisitions of business and products, and the integration of acquired businesses and products, may disrupt our business, distract our management and may not proceed as planned, including, without limitation, our acquisition of and our ability to continue integrating Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics; our ability to achieve economies of scale or to maximize the utilization of our assets and facilities, after continued integration of Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics into our legacy operations; our ability to enter into and exploit the diabetes market; our ability to leverage the marketing and distribution infrastructure that ERBA Mannheim and its affiliates have established around the world; our ability to enhance our position in laboratory automation; our ability to expand our product offerings and/or market reach, including, without limitation, our ability to increase our presence in key countries in Europe, South America, Asia as well as other international markets, or become a leader in the diagnostics industry; the impact the existing global economic conditions may have on our financial condition, operating results and cash flows; the impact of healthcare regulatory reform; constantly changing, and our compliance with, governmental regulation; 25 TABLE OF CONTENTS the impact of our adoption or implementation of new accounting statements and pronouncements on our financial condition and operating results; our limited operating revenues and history of primarily operational losses; our ability to collect our accounts receivable, particularly in Italy, and the impact of making or changing judgments and estimates regarding our allowances for doubtful accounts on our financial condition and operating results; our ability to utilize our net operating losses, whether subject to limitations or not, and its impact on our financial condition and operating results; the impact of any future limitations on our ability to utilize our net operating losses in the event of any future change in control or similar transaction; the impact of making or changing judgments and estimates regarding our deferred tax liabilities and our valuation allowances and reserves against our deferred tax assets on our financial condition and operating results; the impact of making or changing judgments and estimates regarding our goodwill, including the goodwill recorded at ImmunoVision and Drew Scientific, and other intangible assets, such as our hepatitis technology product license, on our financial condition and operating results; our ability to achieve cost advantages from our own manufacture of instrument systems, reagents and test kits; our ability to grow beyond the autoimmune and infectious disease markets and to expand into additional diagnostic test sectors; our ability to derive revenue growth from our manufacture and sale of our own hepatitis products; our production capacity at our facility in Miami Lakes, Florida; our ability to successfully improve our facilities and upgrade or replace our equipment and information systems in the timeframe and utilizing the amount of funds anticipated or at all; our dependence on agreements with ERBA Mannheim, third party distributors and key personnel; consolidation of our customers affecting our operations, markets and products; reimbursement policies of governmental and private third parties affecting our operations, markets and products; price constraints imposed by our customers and governmental and private third parties; our ability to increase the volume of our reagent production to meet increased demand; protecting our intellectual property; political and economic instability and foreign currency fluctuation affecting our foreign operations; the effects of utilizing cash to assist Delta in maintaining its compliance with capital requirements established by Italian law; the holding of a significant portion our cash and cash equivalents at a single brokerage firm, including risks relating to the bankruptcy or insolvency of such brokerage firm; litigation regarding products, distribution rights, intellectual property rights, product liability and labor and employment matters; voting control of our common stock by ERBA Mannheim; conflicts of interest with ERBA Mannheim and its affiliates, including Suresh Vazirani, Sanjiv Suri and/or Kishore Kris Dudani, and with our officers, employees and other directors; and other factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 26 TABLE OF CONTENTS Many of these factors are beyond our control. °Item 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS Not applicable. °Item 2. PROPERTIES Our corporate headquarters are located in Miami Lakes, Florida. Our corporate headquarters share facilities with Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics. Diamedix owns approximately 52,000 square feet of buildings at its facility in Miami, Florida. From this facility, Diamedix conducts research and development of in vitro diagnostic products and reagent kit manufacturing. Delta leases approximately 34,000 square feet of industrial space in Pomezia, Italy, which houses warehouse, production and commercial office facilities. This facility is where our proprietary instrumentation is manufactured. ImmunoVision leases approximately 5,700 square feet of commercial space in Springdale, Arkansas. Drew Scientific leases approximately 1,100 square feet of commercial space in Waterbury, Connecticut and approximately 12,000 square feet of commercial space in Dallas, Texas. From its Connecticut location, Drew Scientific manages technical services and, from its Texas location, it services equipment. JAS Diagnostics leases approximately 30,000 square feet of commercial space in Miami Lakes, Florida, where it manufactures reagents for hematology and clinical chemistry. In January 2014, we began leasing an additional 30,000 square feet of space in Miami Lakes, Florida in an effort to consolidate our Florida and Texas manufacturing operations. We believe our facilities are in satisfactory condition, are suitable for their intended use and, in the aggregate, have capacities in excess of those necessary to meet our present needs. °Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS We are involved in various legal claims and actions and regulatory matters and other notices and demand proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. While it is not possible to predict or determine the outcome of these proceedings, in the opinion of management, based on a review with legal counsel, any losses resulting from such legal proceedings would not have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations or cash flows. °Item 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES Not applicable. 27 TABLE OF CONTENTS PART II °Item 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES Our common stock is listed on the NYSE MKT and trades under the symbol ERB. As of the close of business on April 4, 2014, there were approximately 103 holders of record of our common stock. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices of a share of our common stock for each quarter in 2013 and 2012, as reported by the NYSE MKT: 2013 High Low Fourth Quarter $ 3.10 $ 1.29 Third Quarter 1.65 0.70 Second Quarter 0.95 0.62 First Quarter 0.93 0.69 2012 High Low Fourth Quarter $ 0.99 $ 0.48 Third Quarter 0.90 0.29 Second Quarter 0.72 0.37 First Quarter 0.75 0.41 We did not declare or pay cash dividends on our common stock during 2013 or 2012, and we do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. °Item 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA Not required. 28 TABLE OF CONTENTS °Item 7. MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the information contained in our Consolidated Financial Statements and the related Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. OVERVIEW We are the parent corporation of the following five subsidiaries: Delta Biologicals, S.r.l.; Diamedix Corporation; Drew Scientific, Inc.; ImmunoVision, Inc.; and JAS Diagnostics, Inc. Through these subsidiaries, we develop, manufacture and market diagnostic test kits, or assays, and automated systems that are used to aid in the detection of disease markers primarily in the areas of autoimmune, infectious diseases, clinical chemistry, hematology and diabetes testing. In addition to diagnostic kits, we also design and manufacture laboratory instruments that perform the tests and provide fast and accurate results, while reducing labor costs. We also develop, manufacture and market raw materials, such as antigens used in the production of diagnostic kits. Our management reviews financial information, allocates resources and manages the business as two segments defined by geographic region. One segment the domestic region contains Diamedix, Drew Scientific, ImmunoVision and JAS Diagnostics, our subsidiaries located in the United States, and corporate operations. Our other segment the European region contains Delta Biologicals, our subsidiary located in Italy, and, from October 2012 until March 2013, Drew Scientific Limited Co., our subsidiary which was located in the United Kingdom. For financial information related to these segments, see Note 11, Segment Information , to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Acquisition of Drew Scientific, Inc. On October 3, 2012, we acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Drew Scientific, Inc. for $6,500,000. We funded the purchase price by issuing to ERBA Diagnostics Mannheim GmbH, or ERBA Mannheim, 8,666,667 shares of our common stock at a purchase price of $0.75 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $6,500,000, pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement between us and ERBA Mannheim which is discussed throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Included in the acquisition were Drew Scientific s wholly-owned subsidiaries JAS Diagnostics, Inc. in the United States and formerly Drew Scientific Limited Co. in the United Kingdom, which, together with Drew Scientific, Inc., are collectively referred to as Drew Scientific. We acquired Drew Scientific with the purpose of integrating Drew Scientific s manufacturing and distribution capabilities with our legacy operations to achieve economies of scale and maximize the utilization of our assets and facilities. Drew Scientific is a diagnostics company specializing in the design, manufacture and distribution of instruments for blood cell counting and blood analysis. Drew Scientific is focused on providing instrumentation and consumables for the physician office and veterinary office laboratories. Drew Scientific also supplies the reagent and other consumable materials needed to operate the instruments. JAS Diagnostics specializes in the manufacture of a broad range of liquid stable, diagnostics chemistry reagents used for in vitro diagnostics testing. Many of these reagents are single vial stable, which we believe offer ease of use, increased speed of results and extended on-board stability. JAS Diagnostics reagents are sold through distributors and directly to end users customers physicians, reference laboratories, hospital and veterinary diagnostic testing laboratories. 29 TABLE OF CONTENTS Prior to the October 3, 2012 acquisition date, our management decided to cease the operations of Drew Scientific and its subsidiaries at their facilities in Dallas, Texas and the United Kingdom. As a result, we accrued on the opening balance sheet as of October 3, 2012 estimated plant closing costs, including lease buy-out and severance costs, of $160,000 and $118,000, respectively. Regarding the Dallas, Texas facility, in May 2013, our management initially announced that the closing would be effective in late September 2013, but subsequently made a decision to keep the Dallas facility open for the foreseeable future. With respect to the United Kingdom facility, the closing was effective in late March 2013. Majority Stockholder ERBA Mannheim, an in vitro diagnostics company headquartered in Germany, the parent company of which is Transasia Bio-Medicals Ltd., or Transasia, is the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of approximately 82.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES Our discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our consolidated financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with accounting principals generally accepted in the United States of America, or GAAP. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. On an on-going basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to product returns, allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories, intangible assets, stock compensation, income and other tax accruals, the realization of long-lived assets and contingencies and litigation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Our assumptions and estimates may, however, prove to have been incorrect and our actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We believe the following critical accounting policies and the judgments and estimates we make concerning their application have significant impact on our consolidated financial statements. The critical accounting policies discussed below are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of our accounting policies. In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP, with no need for management s judgment in their application. There are also areas in which management s judgment in selecting any available alternative would not produce a materially different result. Revenue Recognition A principal source of revenue is our reagent rental program in which customers make reagent kit purchase commitments with us that will usually last for a period of three to five years. In exchange, we typically include an instrument system, which remains our property (or, in the case of a lease financing arrangement, that of the financing company). We also include any required instrument service. The customer, through these reagent kit purchases, pays for both the instrumentation and service over the life of the commitment. We recognize revenue from the reagent kit sales when title passes, which is generally at the time of shipment. If actual reagent kit or instrument failure rates significantly increase, then our future operating results could be negatively impacted by increased warranty obligations and service delivery costs. We recognize milestone payments when earned, as evidenced by written acknowledgment from the collaborator, provided that the milestone event is substantive and its achievability was not reasonably assured at the inception of the agreement, the milestone represents the culmination of an earnings process, the milestone payment is non-refundable and our past research and development services, as well as our ongoing commitment to provide research and development services under the collaboration, are charged at fees that are comparable to the fees that we customarily charge for similar research and development services. Cost of Sales and Gross Margins We strive to control our costs of revenue and thereby maintain our gross margins. Significant items impacting cost of sales include component prices and our direct technical and production personnel costs. Our gross margins have remained relatively stable; however, factors such as sales price, product mix, inventory 30 TABLE OF CONTENTS obsolescence, returns, component price increases and increases in our direct production personnel costs, significantly impact our gross margins from quarter to quarter and represent indicators we monitor on a regular basis. Operating Expenses Operating expenses are substantially driven by personnel and related overhead expenses. Significant operating expenses that we monitor include selling, administrative, and research and development. Liquidity and Cash Flows Our financial condition remains strong with significant cash, overall significant working capital, and limited long-term liabilities for severance in Italy and deferred income taxes. The change in our cash position was primarily due to cash used in operating activities and cash used for capital expenditures which were offset by an increase in net borrowings under our revolving line of credit. Balance Sheet We view cash, accounts receivable, inventory, accounts payable, and our revolving line of credit as important indicators of our financial health. Utilization of our revolving line of credit has increased due to increased sales in Italy and the extended length of time that it takes to collect on accounts receivable in Italy. Allowance for Doubtful Accounts We grant credit without collateral to our customers based on our evaluation of a particular customer s credit worthiness. In addition, allowances for doubtful accounts are maintained, particularly in Italy where payment cycles are longer than in the United States and in some instances may take in excess of a year to collect, for potential credit losses based on the age of the accounts receivable and the results of our periodic credit evaluations of our customers financial condition. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts, particularly in Italy for the operations of our European subsidiary, for estimated losses based on historical loss percentages resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. Inventory We regularly review inventory quantities on hand, which include components for current or future versions of products and instrumentation. If necessary, we record a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based primarily on our estimates of component obsolescence, product demand and production requirements, as well as based upon the status of a product within the regulatory approval process. In accordance with our inventory accounting policy, our inventory balance includes components for current or future versions of products and instrumentation. Goodwill, Other Intangibles, and Fixed Assets Goodwill represents the excess purchase price over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired as of the acquisition date. We test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests when impairment indicators are identified, and goodwill is written down when impaired. Goodwill was recognized in connection with the acquisition of ImmunoVision and the more recent acquisition of Drew Scientific. We perform our annual goodwill impairment test during the last quarter of the fiscal year. No impairment charge was recorded for the goodwill at ImmunoVision or Drew Scientific during 2013 or 2012. As part of our annual goodwill impairment test, we first perform a qualitative assessment to determine whether further impairment testing is necessary. If, as a result of the qualitative assessment, it is more-likely-than-not (i.e. greater than 50% chance) that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount, then the quantitative impairment test will be required. Otherwise, no further testing will be required. Examples of events and circumstances that might indicate that a reporting unit s fair value is less than its carrying amount include macro-economic conditions such as deterioration in the entity s operating environment or industry or market considerations; entity-specific events such as increasing costs, declining financial performance, or loss of key personnel; or other events such as an expectation that a reporting unit will be sold or a sustained decrease in its stock price on either an absolute basis or relative to peers. 31 TABLE OF CONTENTS If it is determined, as a result of the qualitative assessment, that it is more-likely-than-not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount, then the provisions of authoritative guidance require that we perform a two-step impairment test on goodwill. The first step of the test identifies whether potential impairment may have occurred, while the second step of the test measures the amount of impairment, if any. Impairment is recognized when the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its fair value. We review for impairment our long-live assets, including other intangibles and fixed assets that are held and used in our operations, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If such an event or change in circumstances occurs, then we will estimate the undiscounted future net cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the sum of the future undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the related assets, then we will recognize an impairment loss. Stock-Based Compensation Stock-based compensation expense for all stock-based compensation awards is based on the grant-date fair value estimate calculated in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. We recognize these compensation costs using the straight-line attribution method over the requisite service period of the related award, which is generally the option vesting term of (i) immediately or (ii) in equal annual amounts over a four-year period. We recorded total compensation expense of $134,000 and $55,000 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Valuations are based on highly subjective assumptions about the future, including stock price volatility and exercise patterns. The fair value of share-based payment awards has been estimated using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing model. Expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of our stock. We use historical data to estimate expected term, taking into account option exercise and employee terminations. The expected term of options granted represents the periods of time that the options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate for years within the expected life of the option is based on the United States Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the grant. Income Taxes We are required to estimate our income taxes in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate as part of the process of preparing our consolidated financial statements. This process involves estimating our actual current tax exposure, including assessing the risks associated with tax audits, together with assessing temporary differences resulting from the different treatment of items for tax and accounting purposes. Prior to 2013, we have experienced net losses from our operations. In accordance with GAAP, we are required to record a valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset associated with these losses if it is more-likely-than-not (i.e. greater than 50% chance) that we will not be able to utilize the net operating loss to offset future taxes. Due to the cumulative net losses from the operations of both our domestic and European operations, we have provided a full valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2013. Over time we may reach levels of profitability that could cause our management to conclude that it is more likely than not that we will realize all or a portion of our net operating loss carry forwards and other temporary differences. Upon reaching such a conclusion, and upon such time as we reverse the entire amount or a portion of the valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset, we would then provide for income taxes at a rate equal to our effective tax rate. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, our ability to use our net operating loss carry forwards will be limited in the future as a result of the September 1, 2010 acquisition by ERBA Mannheim of the approximately 72.4% of the then outstanding shares of our common stock. As a result of that acquisition, our ability to utilize net operating loss carry forwards to offset future taxable income is currently limited to approximately $827,000 per year, plus both any limitation unused since the acquisition and any unused net operating losses generated after the September 1, 2010 acquisition date. The amount of the annual limitation will be adjusted upwards for any recognized built-in gains on certain assets sold during the five year period commencing with the September 1, 2010 ownership change, but may be further limited in the event of any future change in control or similar transaction. Our results for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were not impacted by these limitations. 32 TABLE OF CONTENTS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2012 Net income for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $676,000 compared to a net loss of $1,553,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012. The $2,229,000 increase was composed of the following: Net revenues increased by $8,906,000 to $28,255,000 in 2013 from $19,349,000 in 2012. This 46% increase was primarily attributed to the inclusion of net revenues of $13,754,000 from Drew Scientific during the full year in 2013, compared to net revenues of $3,391,000 from Drew Scientific during the post-acquisition portion of the year in 2012, offset by other factors from legacy domestic operations resulting in a decrease of $1,457,000. This decrease of $1,457,000 consisted primarily of a decrease in net external revenues from legacy domestic operations of $1,514,000, to $8,783,000 in 2013 from $10,297,000 in 2012. Cost of sales increased $4,186,000 to $14,443,000 in 2013 from $10,257,000 in 2012. This 41% increase was directly related to the changes in net revenue related to Drew Scientific and legacy domestic operations as mentioned above. Gross profit increased by $4,721,000 to $13,813,000 in 2013 from $9,092,000 in 2012. This 52% increase was attributed to the inclusion of gross profit of $5,626,0000 from Drew Scientific during the full year in 2013, compared to gross profit of $881,000 from Drew Scientific during the post-acquisition portion of the year in 2012. Gross profit margins increased from 47.0% in 2012 to 48.9% in 2013. This increase was a result of the increase in reagent sales from our acquisition of Drew Scientific, which have a higher gross profit margin than instruments. Total operating expenses increased by $2,481,000 to $12,776,000 in 2013 from $10,295,000 in 2012. The 24.1% increase was a result of increases in all three operating expense categories: selling expenses increased $692,000, or 15%, to $5,309,000 in 2013 from $4,617,000, in 2012; general and administrative expenses increased $991,000, or 21.8%, to $5,547,000 in 2013 from $4,556,000 in 2012; and research and development expenses increased by $797,000, or 70.9%, to $1,920,000 in 2013 from $1,123,000 in 2012. The increase in total operating expenses is primarily attributable to the inclusion of total operating expenses of $3,864,000 from Drew Scientific during the full year in 2013 compared to total operating expenses of $1,102,000 from Drew Scientific during the post-acquisition portion of the year in 2012. Operating income was $1,037,000 in 2013 compared to an operating loss of $1,203,000 in 2012. The change from an operating loss in 2012 to an operating profit in 2013 resulted primarily from the inclusion of operating income of $1,762,000 from Drew Scientific during the full year in 2013, compared to operating loss of $221,000 from Drew Scientific during the post-acquisition portion of the year in 2012. NET REVENUES AND GROSS PROFIT The following table presents comparative net revenues and gross profit for our operations, including the operations for Drew Scientific since the October 3, 2012 date of acquisition. 2013 2012 Increase Net Revenues: Domestic $ 23,117,000 $ 14,317,000 $ 8,800,000 European 5,138,000 5,032,000 106,000 Total 28,255,000 19,349,000 8,906,000 Cost of Sales 14,442,000 10,257,000 4,185,000 Gross Profit $ 13,813,000 $ 9,092,000 $ 4,721,000 % of Total 48.9 % 47.0 % The net increase in revenues was primarily attributed to the inclusion of net revenues of $13,754,000 from Drew Scientific during the full year in 2013 compared to net revenues of $3,391,000 from Drew Scientific during the post-acquisition portion of the year in 2012, offset by other factors from legacy domestic operations resulting in a decrease of $1,457,000. This decrease of $1,457,000 consisted primarily of a decrease in net external revenues from legacy domestic operations of $1,514,000, to $8,783,000 in 2013 from $10,297,000 in 33 TABLE OF CONTENTS 2012. The decrease in net revenues from legacy domestic operations of $1,514,000 was principally due to a decrease in reagent sales in the United States due to revamping of the sales organization and significant reduction in the sales to Europe due to economic conditions in major portions of Europe. The net increase in gross profit was attributed to the inclusion of gross profit of $5,626,000 from Drew Scientific during the full year in 2013 compared to gross profit of $881,000 from Drew Scientific during the post-acquisition portion of the year in 2012. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues increased from 47.0% in 2012 to 48.9% in 2013, resulting principally from the an increase in reagent sales in Drew Scientific, which have a higher gross profit margin than instrument sales. OPERATING EXPENSES The following table presents comparative operating expenses for us, including the amounts for Drew Scientific since the October 3, 2012 date of acquisition. The percentages below are based on the net revenues in the above table. 2013 % of Revenue 2012 % of Revenue Increase Selling $ 5,309,000 18.8 % $ 4,617,000 23.9 % $ 692,000 General and Administrative 5,547,000 19.7 % 4,555,000 23.5 % 992,000 Research and Development 1,920,000 6.8 % 1,123,000 5.8 % 797,000 Total Operating Expenses $ 12,776,000 45.3 % $ 10,295,000 53.2 % $ 2,481,000 Total operating expenses increased $2,481,000 from $10,295,000 in 2012 to $12,775,000 in 2013. The 15.0% increase of $692,000 in selling expenses in 2013 compared to 2012 was due to the inclusion of selling expenses of $2,230,000 from Drew Scientific during the full year in 2013 compared to selling expenses of $522,000 from Drew Scientific during the post-acquisition portion of the year in 2012, offset by the decrease of $1,007,000 from legacy domestic operations which was due principally to open sales positions in the United States and lower commissions from lower sales in various commissionable categories. The 21.8% increase of $992,000 in general and administrative expenses in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to the inclusion of general and administrative expenses of $1,235,000 from Drew Scientific during the full year in 2013 compared to general and administrative expenses of $320,000 from Drew Scientific during the post-acquisition portion of the year in 2012. The 71.1% increase of $797,000 in research and development expenses in 2013 compared to 2012 was primarily due to an increase in research and development activities from the research and development efforts in Italy related to the development of the next generation ELISA platform LISA XL. Additional expenditures of approximately Euro 675,000 (equivalent to approximately $896,000) incurred in 2013 related to the research and development efforts in Italy were billed to ERBA Mannheim. INCOME (LOSS) FROM OPERATIONS Income from operations totaled $1,037,000 in 2013 as compared to an operating loss of $1,203,000 in 2012, primarily due to the inclusion of operating income of $1,762,000 from Drew Scientific during the full year in 2013 compared to an operating loss of $221,000 from Drew Scientific during the post-acquisition portion of the year in 2012, as well as an improvement in our European operations of $281,000 from an operating loss of $382,000 in 2012 to an operating loss $101,000 in 2013. OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET Other income (expense) totaled a net expense of $242,000 in 2013 as compared to a net expense of $228,000 in 2012. The 2013 balance consists of foreign currency transaction gains of $187,000, interest expense of $122,000, expenses of $211,000 related to the acquisition of Drew Scientific, and net other expenses of $96,000. The 2012 amounts consist of foreign currency transaction losses of $56,000, net interest expense of $40,000, expenses of $211,000 related to the acquisition of Drew Scientific, and net other income of $79,000. 34 TABLE OF CONTENTS INCOME TAX PROVISION We recorded income tax provisions of $119,000 for 2013 and $122,000 for 2012. The current portion of our tax provisions in both years relates to Italian local income taxes based upon applicable statutory rates effective in Italy. In addition, the domestic provision of $69,000 for 2013 and $81,000 for 2012 represent the deferred tax provisions in these years relating to domestic tax-deductible goodwill. No current tax benefit was recorded during the two years on our losses because we had a full valuation allowance against the net deferred income tax assets. See also Note 7, Income Taxes , to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding other tax matters. NET INCOME (LOSS) Net income for 2013 was $676,000, compared to a net loss of $1,553,000 in 2012. Drew Scientific generated net income of $1,614,000 during the full year in 2013 as compared to net loss of $238,000 during the post-acquisition portion of the year in 2012. Basic and diluted net income per common share was $0.02 and $0.01, respectively, in 2013 as compared to a net loss per common share of $0.04 in 2012. The net income for 2013 and the net loss for 2012 resulted from the various factors discussed above. 35 TABLE OF CONTENTS LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES At December 31, 2013, our working capital was $11,549,000 compared to $9,834,000 at December 31, 2012. Cash and cash equivalents totaled $4,031,000 at December 31, 2013 and $4,126,000 at December 31, 2012. As more fully described in Note 3, Acquisition of Drew Scientific, Inc. , to the Consolidated Financial Statements, during the year ended December 31, 2012, ERBA Mannheim paid $6,500,000 to us in consideration of the issuance, on October 3, 2012, of 8,666,667 shares of our common stock, which funds were used by us to fund the acquisition, on October 3, 2012, of Drew Scientific and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Operating activities Net cash flows of $932,000 were used in operating activities during 2013 as compared to $202,000 that was provided by operating activities during 2012. Cash used in operating activities of $932,000 during 2013 was the result of the net income of $676,000, offset by an aggregate use of cash in operating assets and liabilities of $2,827,000 and non-cash items of $1,220,000. The non-cash items include principally depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, noncash compensation, adjustments to each of the allowances for doubtful accounts and inventory obsolescence, and deferred income taxes. Cash used in changes in operating assets and liabilities was due to changes in accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, deferred liabilities, accounts payable and accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities. Cash provided by operating activities of $202,000 during 2012 was the result of the net loss of $1,553,000, offset by changes in operating assets and liabilities of $320,000 and non-cash items of $1,435,000. The non-cash items include principally depreciation, amortization of intangible assets, and adjustment to both the allowances for doubtful accounts and inventory obsolescence, and deferred income taxes. Cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities was due to changes in accounts receivable, inventories, other current assets, accounts payable and accrued expenses and other long-term liabilities. Investing activities As noted above and throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we acquired Drew Scientific on October 3, 2012. As discussed in Note 3, Acquisition of Drew Scientific, Inc. , to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the fair value of assets acquired aggregated $8,261,000, including accounts receivable of $1,211,000, inventory of $2,093,000, identifiable intangible assets of $1,848,000, other assets of $485,000, and goodwill of $2,624,000. The fair value of liabilities assumed aggregated $1,761,000. Net cash of $515,000 and $6,662,000 was used in investing activities during 2013 and 2012, respectively. The cash flows relating to investing activities in 2013 were principally for capital expenditures of $298,000 and acquisition of equipment on lease of $217,000. The cash flows relating to investing activities in 2012 were principally for the acquisition of Drew Scientific ($6,453,000, net of cash acquired of $47,000), capital expenditures of $105,000, acquisition of equipment on lease of $77,000, offset by cash released from restricted deposits of $13,000. Financing activities Financing activities during 2013 primarily reflect the draw down of $1,131,000 from our revolving line of credit. Financing activities during 2012 reflect the receipt of proceeds of $6,950,000 from the issuances of common stock, net proceeds of $86,000 under our revolving line of credit and capital lease payments of $79,000. In April 2012, we received $450,000 from ERBA Mannheim in connection with its partial exercise of the Warrant. In September 2012, we received $6,500,000 from ERBA Mannheim as an advance in connection with our issuance in October 2012 of shares to it under the Stock Purchase Agreement, as amended, between us and ERBA Mannheim. We used the proceeds from this advance to acquire, on October 3, 2012, Drew Scientific and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. 36 TABLE OF CONTENTS Other matters Liquidity is expected to be sufficient for the next twelve months from the combination of the existing cash and cash equivalents at December 31, 2013, and the investment that ERBA Mannheim has agreed to make under the Stock Purchase Agreement, including the Warrant, as described throughout this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A significant portion of our cash and cash equivalents is presently held at one international securities brokerage firm. Accordingly, we are subject to credit risk if this brokerage firm is unable to repay the balance in the account or deliver our securities or if the brokerage firm should become bankrupt or otherwise insolvent. We invest in only select money market instruments, United States treasury investments, municipal and other governmental agency securities and corporate issuers. Our product research and development expenditures were $1,920,000 during the year ended December 31, 2013 and $1,123,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012 of which our subsidiary, Delta Biologics, billed ERBA Mannheim $896,000 in 2013. Actual expenditures will depend upon, among other things, the outcome of clinical testing of products under development, delays or changes in government required testing and approval procedures, technological and competitive developments, strategic marketing decisions and liquidity. There can be no assurance that these expenditures will result in the development of new products or product enhancements, which we will successfully complete products under development, that we will obtain regulatory approval or that any approved product will be produced in commercial quantities, at reasonable costs, and be successfully marketed. In connection with our evaluation of our operating results, financial condition and cash position, and specifically considering our results of operations and cash utilization during 2013, we continue to implement measures expected to improve future cash flow. To this end, we expect operating results to continue to improve from the operating results achieved during 2013 based principally upon increases in revenue as a result of new channels of distribution in the United States and international markets. We maintain allowances for doubtful accounts, particularly in Italy where payment cycles are longer than in the United States, for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required or timely payments. Additionally, we periodically receive payments based upon negotiated agreements with governmental regions in Italy, acting on behalf of hospitals located in the region, in satisfaction of previously outstanding accounts receivable balances. We may anticipate collection of these amounts through a payment as described above, and, therefore, not provide an allowance for doubtful accounts for these amounts. If contemplated payments are not received, if existing agreements are not complied with or cancelled, or if we require additional allowances, then our operating results could be materially adversely affected during the period in which we make the determination to increase the allowance for doubtful accounts. We cannot guarantee that we can generate net income, increase revenues, improve our cash flow or successfully obtain debt or equity financing on acceptable terms, or at all, and, if we cannot do so, then we may not be able to survive and any investment in our company may be lost. For the long-term, we intend to utilize principally existing cash and cash equivalents, proceeds we expect to receive from ERBA Mannheim pursuant to the investment contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement, including the Warrant, as well as internally generated funds, which are anticipated to be derived primarily from the sale of existing diagnostic and instrumentation products and diagnostic and instrumentation products currently under development as well as possible sources of debt and equity financings. If we are not successful in improving our operating results and cash flows or if existing and possible future sources of liquidity described above are insufficient, then we may be required to curtail or reduce our operations. As of December 31, 2013, we had no off-balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a current or future material effect on our financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. 37 TABLE OF CONTENTS RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , under the heading, Recently Issued Accounting Standards , to the Consolidated Financial Statements regarding recently issued accounting standards applicable to us. CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS For the years December 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately 18.3% and 26.7%, respectively, of our net revenues were generated in currencies other than the United States dollar. We expect that this percentage may increase in the future as a result of our efforts to increase our international presence, particularly in key markets in Europe, Asia and South America. Fluctuations in the value of foreign currencies relative to the United States dollar affect our reported results of operations. If the United States dollar weakens relative to the foreign currency, then our earnings generated in the foreign currency will, in effect, increase when converted into United States dollars and vice versa. Exchange rate differences resulting from the relationship of the United States dollar against the Euro resulted in an increase of approximately $164,000 in net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 as compared to the year ended December 31, 2012. Our European subsidiary incurs most of its revenue and expenses in Euro, which, to some extent, serves as a natural hedge and limits the net currency exposure. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, none of our subsidiaries was domiciled in a highly inflationary environment and the impact of inflation and changing prices on our net revenues and on our loss from continuing operations was not material. Conducting an international business inherently involves a number of difficulties, risks, and uncertainties, such as export and trade restrictions, inconsistent and changing regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, cultural issues, labor and employment laws, longer payment cycles, problems in collecting accounts receivable, political instability, local economic downturns, seasonal reductions in business activity in Europe during the traditional summer vacation months and potentially adverse tax consequences. INCOME TAXES Refer to Note 7, Income Taxes , to the consolidated financial statements and the Income Taxes section of Critical Accounting Policies included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K regarding income tax matters. RISK OF PRODUCT LIABILITY CLAIMS Developing, manufacturing and marketing diagnostic test kits, reagents and instruments subject us to the risk of product liability claims. We believe that we continue to maintain an adequate amount of product liability insurance, but there can be no assurance that our insurance will cover all existing and future claims. There can be no assurance that claims arising under any pending or future product liability cases, whether or not covered by insurance, will not have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations or financial condition. Our current products liability insurance is a claims made policy. °Item 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK Not required. 38 TABLE OF CONTENTS °Item 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Index to Consolidated Financial Statements Page Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 40 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 41 Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 42 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 43 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 44 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 45 39 TABLE OF CONTENTS REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM To the Board of Directors and Shareholders ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. (a Delaware corporation) and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Company ) as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, shareholders equity, and cash flows for the years then ended. The Company s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. The Company is not required to have, nor were we engaged to perform, an audit of its internal control over financial reporting. Our audit included consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each for the years in the two year period ended December 31, 2013 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. /s/ Mayer Hoffman McCann P.C. Miami, Florida April 14, 2014 40 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Balance Sheets December 31, 2013 and 2012 2013 2012 ASSETS CURRENT ASSETS: Cash and cash equivalents $ 4,031,071 $ 4,125,818 Accounts receivable, net 5,546,715 5,643,359 Inventories, net 6,494,173 5,838,150 Related party receivables 1,834,732 725,806 Other current assets 395,196 219,636 Total current assets 18,301,887 16,552,769 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT: Land 352,957 352,957 Buildings and improvements 3,136,434 3,068,607 Machinery and equipment 3,831,213 3,731,139 Furniture and fixtures 2,216,720 2,050,241 9,537,324 9,202,944 Less: accumulated depreciation (7,976,121 ) (7,605,984 ) Property, plant and equipment, net 1,561,203 1,596,960 OTHER LONG-TERM ASSETS: Intangible assets, net 1,480,151 1,812,048 Goodwill 3,494,619 3,494,619 Equipment on lease, net 586,785 585,321 Product license 226,349 282,936 Restricted deposits 204,686 148,040 Other assets 18,786 81,075 Total other long-term assets 6,011,376 6,404,039 Total assets $ 25,874,466 $ 24,553,768 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY CURRENT LIABILITIES: Accounts payable $ 1,953,906 $ 3,064,516 Capital lease obligation, current 21,947 Revolving line of credit 1,904,879 822,635 Other accrued expenses 2,894,430 2,809,447 Total current liabilities 6,753,215 6,718,545 OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES: Deferred tax liabilities 576,160 509,365 Other long-term liabilities 1,027,425 993,980 Total other long-term liabilities 1,603,585 1,503,345 Total liabilities 8,356,800 8,221,890 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY: Common stock, par value $0.01, authorized 100,000,000 shares, issued and outstanding 43,658,221 in 2013 and 2012 436,582 436,582 Additional paid-in capital 53,081,370 52,947,370 Accumulated deficit (35,861,343 ) (36,537,171 ) Accumulated other comprehensive loss (138,943 ) (514,903 ) Total shareholders equity 17,517,666 16,331,878 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 25,874,466 $ 24,553,768 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. 41 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss For the Years Ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 2013 2012 NET REVENUE $ 28,255,317 $ 19,349,004 COST OF SALES 14,442,815 10,257,367 Gross profit 13,812,502 9,091,637 OPERATING EXPENSES: Selling 5,308,528 4,616,684 General and administrative 5,547,078 4,555,577 Research and development 1,920,171 1,122,537 Total operating expenses 12,775,777 10,294,798 Income (loss) from operations 1,036,725 (1,203,161 ) OTHER INCOME (EXPENSE), NET: Interest income (expense) (121,963 ) (39,808 ) Unrealized gain (loss) on foreign currency transactions 187,252 (55,793 ) Acquisition expenses (211,045 ) (211,099 ) Other income (expense), net (96,087 ) 78,550 Total other income (expense), net (241,843 ) (228,150 ) Income (loss) before provision for income taxes 794,882 (1,431,311 ) PROVISION FOR INCOME TAXES 119,054 122,045 Net income (loss) 675,828 (1,553,356 ) OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS): Foreign currency translation adjustment 375,960 152,962 Total comprehensive income (loss) $ 1,051,788 $ (1,400,394 ) NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE Basic $ 0.02 $ (0.04 ) NET INCOME (LOSS) PER SHARE Diluted $ 0.01 $ (0.04 ) WEIGHTED AVERAGE SHARES OUTSTANDING: Basic 43,658,221 36,947,292 Diluted 48,542,706 36,947,292 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. 42 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity For the Years Ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 Common Stock Additional Paid-in Capital Accumulated Deficit Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Total Shareholders Equity Shares Amount Balances as of December 31, 2011 34,391,554 $ 343,915 $ 46,035,037 $ (34,983,815 ) $ (667,865 ) $ 10,727,272 Issuance of common stock 9,266,667 92,667 6,857,333 6,950,000 Stock compensation expense 55,000 55,000 Net (loss) (1,553,356 ) (1,553,356 ) Foreign currency translation adjustment 152,962 152,962 Balances as of December 31, 2012 43,658,221 $ 436,582 $ 52,947,370 $ (36,537,171 ) $ (514,903 ) $ 16,331,878 Stock compensation expense 134,000 134,000 Net income 675,828 675,828 Foreign currency translation adjustment 375,960 375,960 Balances as of December 31, 2013 43,658,221 $ 436,582 $ 53,081,370 $ (35,861,343 ) $ (138,943 ) $ 17,517,666 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. 43 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the Years Ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 2013 2012 CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES: Net income (loss) $ 675,828 $ (1,553,356 ) Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities Depreciation and amortization 960,070 726,214 Provision for doubtful accounts receivable 39,221 195,940 Provision for inventory obsolescence 17,652 377,486 Non-cash compensation 134,000 55,000 Deferred income tax provision 68,788 80,689 Changes in operating assets and liabilities, net of acquisition: Accounts receivable 294,920 1,039,949 Inventories (584,383 ) (179,128 ) Other current assets (235,722 ) (60,585 ) Accounts payable and accrued expenses (1,190,856 ) (116,953 ) Related party receivables (1,125,161 ) (322,370 ) Other long-term liabilities 13,918 (41,180 ) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities (931,725 ) 201,706 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Capital expenditures (297,909 ) (105,233 ) Acquisition of equipment on lease, net (217,167 ) (76,616 ) Acquisition of Drew Scientific, Inc., net of cash acquired (6,453,404 ) Decrease in restricted deposits 12,797 Net cash (used in) investing activities (515,076 ) (6,622,456 ) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES: Proceeds of share offering 6,950,000 Net proceeds from revolving line of credit 1,130,707 86,069 Capital lease payments (21,947 ) (78,929 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 1,108,760 6,957,140 EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 243,294 (63,816 ) NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (94,747 ) 472,574 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, beginning of year 4,125,818 3,653,244 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, end of year $ 4,031,071 $ 4,125,818 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES: Income taxes paid $ $ 8,836 Interest paid $ 28,156 $ 39,911 SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NONCASH INVESTING ACTIVITIES: Refer to Note 3 The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements. 44 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 1 ORGANIZATION AND OPERATIONS As approved by the Company s stockholders at the Company s Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 15, 2012, and as previously approved by the Company s Board of Directors, the Company s name was changed from IVAX Diagnostics, Inc. to ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. ( ERBA Diagnostics or the Company ). The Company is a Delaware corporation and, through its subsidiaries, is engaged in developing, manufacturing and marketing diagnostic test kits, reagents and instruments for use in hospitals, reference laboratories, clinical laboratories, research laboratories, doctors offices and other commercial companies. The Company s products and instrumentation are sold globally. On September 1, 2010, ERBA Diagnostics Mannheim GmbH, an in vitro diagnostics company headquartered in Germany ( ERBA Mannheim ), the parent company of which is Transasia Bio-Medicals Ltd. ( Transasia ), purchased all of the approximately 72.4% of the outstanding shares of the Company s common stock then owned by the Debregeas-Kennedy Group for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $15,000,000, or $0.75 per share. As a result of this share acquisition, the consummation of the various transactions contemplated by the investment made by ERBA Mannheim pursuant to that certain Stock Purchase Agreement, as further described in Note 13, Related Party Transactions , including ERBA Mannheim s purchase from the Company, and the Company s issuance to ERBA Mannheim, of an aggregate of 15,333,334 shares of the Company s common stock, and ERBA Mannheim s exercise, in part, of the Warrant, as further described in Note 13, Related Party Transactions , for 600,000 shares of the Company s common stock, ERBA Mannheim now beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 82.4% of the outstanding shares of the Company s common stock. 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Principles of Consolidation The accompanying consolidated financial statements are presented in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) and include the accounts of ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries Diamedix Corporation ( Diamedix ), ImmunoVision, Inc. ( ImmunoVision ) and Delta Biologicals, S.r.l. ( Delta Biologicals ) and, from and after the acquisition date of October 3, 2012, Drew Scientific, Inc. and its subsidiaries ( Drew Scientific ) (as more fully described in Note 3, Acquisition of Drew Scientific, Inc. ). All significant intra-entity balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Reclassifications Certain amounts in the prior year s consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to the current year s presentation. Use of Estimates The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities, at the date of and for the period of the consolidated financial statements. The Company s actual results in subsequent periods may differ from the estimates and judgments used in the preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Significant estimates include the allowance for doubtful accounts, inventories, intangible assets, income and other tax accruals, stock based compensation, the computation of fair-value measurements related to the acquisition of Drew Scientific, the realization of long-lived assets and contingencies and litigation. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Company considers certain short-term investments in money market accounts with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. 45 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) Accounts Receivable and Allowance for Doubtful Accounts The Company grants credit without collateral to its customers based on the Company s evaluation of a particular customer s credit worthiness. In addition, allowances for doubtful accounts are maintained, particularly in Italy where payment cycles are longer than in the United States and in some instances may take in excess of a year to collect, for potential credit losses based on the age of the accounts receivable and the results of the Company s periodic credit evaluations of its customers financial condition. Accounts receivable are written off after collection efforts have been followed in accordance with the Company s policies. Accounts written off as uncollectible are deducted from the allowance for doubtful accounts, while subsequent recoveries are netted against provision for doubtful accounts expense. The Company generally does not charge interest on accounts receivable. The Company periodically receives payments based upon negotiated agreements with governmental regions in Italy, acting on behalf of hospitals located in the region, in satisfaction of previously outstanding accounts receivable balances. The Company may have anticipated collection of these amounts through a payment as described above and, therefore, not provided an allowance for doubtful accounts for these amounts. Future payments by governmental regions in Italy are possible and, as a result, the Company may consider the potential receipt of those payments in determining its allowance for doubtful accounts. If contemplated payments are not received when expected or at all, or if negotiated agreements are not complied with in a timely manner or cancelled, then the Company may provide additional allowances for doubtful accounts. The allowance for doubtful accounts was $1,064,739 and $995,662 as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and activity for the years then ended was as follows: 2013 2012 Balance as of January 1 $ 995,662 $ 716,599 Provision 39,559 625,935 Write-offs (361,229 ) Effects of changes in foreign exchange rates 29,518 14,357 Balance as of December 31 $ 1,064,739 $ 995,662 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out) or market. Components of inventory cost include materials, labor and manufacturing overhead. In evaluating whether inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market, management considers such factors as the amount of inventory on hand, estimated time required to sell such inventory, remaining shelf life and current market conditions. Inventory costs associated with marketed products are capitalized, as are certain unapproved products prior to regulatory approval and product launch, based on management s judgment of probable future economic benefit which includes an assessment of probability of future commercial use and net realizable value. With respect to instrumentation products, the Company purchases instrument parts and, in some cases, manufactures instrument components in preparation for the commercial launch of the instrument in amounts sufficient to support forecasted initial market demand. Inventory is not capitalized unless the product or instrument is considered to have a high probability of receiving regulatory approval. The Company may make this determination prior to its submission to the United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) of a 510(k) application or other required regulatory submission. In determining probability, if the Company is aware of any specific risks or contingencies that are likely to adversely impact the expected regulatory approval process, then it would not capitalize the related inventory but would instead expense it as incurred. Additionally, the Company s estimates of future instrumentation and diagnostic kit product demand, or judgment of probable future economic benefit, may prove to be inaccurate, in which case any resulting adjustments to the value of inventory would be recognized 46 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) at the time of such determination. Reserves are provided as appropriate to reduce excess or obsolete inventories to the lower of cost or market. Inventories, net consist of the following as of December 31, 2013 and 2012: 2013 2012 Raw materials $ 3,123,380 $ 1,712,199 Work-in-process 624,454 664,880 Finished goods 2,746,339 3,461,071 Total inventories, net $ 6,494,173 $ 5,838,150 The Company regularly reviews inventory quantities on hand, which include components for current or future versions of products and instrumentation. If necessary, the Company records a provision for excess and obsolete inventory based primarily on its estimates of component obsolescence, product demand and production requirements, as well as based upon the status of a product within the regulatory approval process. In accordance with the Company s inventory accounting policy, the Company s inventory balance at times includes components for current or future versions of products and instrumentation. Inventory reserves were approximately $1,129,000 and $816,000 as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. Our inventory balance as of December 31, 2012 included approximately $100,000 of inventory relating to our hepatitis product, substantially all of which has a shelf life exceeding five years, for which we obtained CE Marking approval in the European Union during 2011 and for which we have begun selling in certain markets. As a result of sales in 2013, the inventory balance has been depleted as of December 31, 2013. Property, Plant and Equipment Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost, less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: Years Buildings and improvements 5 20 Machinery and equipment 3 10 Furniture and fixtures 3 10 Costs of major additions and improvements are capitalized and expenditures for maintenance and repairs which do not extend the life of the assets are expensed. Upon sale or disposition of property, plant and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation is eliminated from the accounts and any resulting gain or loss is credited or charged to operations. Depreciation expense was $393,462 and $326,917 during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Equipment on Lease, Net The cost of the Company s owned instruments, which are placed under reagent rental programs at customer facilities for testing and usage of the Company s products (see Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , below under the heading Revenue Recognition ), less accumulated amortization, consists of the following as of December 31, 2013 and 2012: 2013 2012 Equipment on lease, at cost $ 6,773,917 $ 6,666,122 Less accumulated amortization 6,187,132 6,080,801 $ 586,785 $ 585,321 Equipment on lease is typically amortized over three or five years. Amortization expense was $214,237 and $172,175 for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 47 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) Intangible Assets Intangible assets relate to the acquisition of Drew Scientific (as more fully described in Note 3, Acquisition of Drew Scientific, Inc. ) and consist of the following as of December 31, 2013 and 2012: Estimated Useful Life (Years) As of December 31, 2013 As of December 31, 2012 Gross Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Amount Gross Amount Accumulated Amortization Net Amount Customer relationships 4.8 $ 1,026,532 $ 266,957 $ 759,575 $ 1,026,532 $ 53,096 $ 973,436 Trademarks/ tradenames 10 512,701 64,087 448,614 512,701 12,817 499,884 Patents 7 309,057 53,168 255,889 309,057 9,972 299,085 Lease rights 2 47,140 31,067 16,073 47,140 7,497 39,643 $ 1,895,430 $ 415,279 $ 1,480,151 $ 1,895,430 $ 83,382 $ 1,812,048 Amortization expense is computed principally on a straight-line basis and for the next five years approximates: Years Ending December 31, 2014 $ 324,000 2015 306,000 2016 306,000 2017 216,000 2018 94,000 $ 1,228,000 Amortization expense related to the acquired intangible assets for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 amounted to $331,897 and $83,382, respectively. Long Lived Assets, Including Goodwill Goodwill is attributed to the acquisitions of ImmunoVision and Drew Scientific and represents the excess of the cost over the fair value of nets assets acquired. The Company tests goodwill for possible impairment on an annual basis and at any other time events occur or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of goodwill may be impaired. The first step required in the impairment analysis consists of a comparison of the fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying amount, including the goodwill. For the annual test of its remaining goodwill at ImmunoVision, the Company determined fair value primarily based upon the income approach, which estimates the fair value based on the future discounted cash flows, rather than the market approach, which estimates the fair value based on market prices of comparable companies. The Company believes the income approach is more appropriate to determine the fair value at ImmunoVision and should therefore be more heavily weighted due to the fact that similar public companies comparable to ImmunoVision are difficult to identify and current market conditions are in a period of volatility with wide ranging multiples. Based upon this methodology, and utilizing significant assumptions in the income approach that included a forecasted cash flow period of five years, long-term annual growth rates of 3% for both years and a discount rate of 19% and 20% for 2013 and 2102, respectively, no impairment was recorded for the years ended December 31, 2013 or 2012. The goodwill of Drew Scientific was also subjected to the annual testing for impairment and its value was determined by the Company with similar significant reliance on the income approach. This approach utilized significant assumptions including a forecasted cash flow period of five years, a long-term annual growth rate 3% and a discount rate of 19%. The market approach was not considered to be as reliable as the income approach due to the difficulty of identifying similar publicly traded companies comparable to Drew Scientific 48 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) and the stock price volatility in the industry. The Company determined that the income approach is more appropriate, and, based upon the results of the Company s analysis, no impairment was recorded during the year ended December 31, 2013. The Company reviews its long-lived assets for impairment, including intangible assets and fixed assets that are held and used in its operations, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If such an event or change in circumstances occurs, then the Company will estimate the undiscounted future net cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its eventual disposition. If the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the related assets, then the Company will recognize an impairment loss. Assets to be disposed of are reclassified as assets held for sale at the lower of their carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. Write-downs to fair value less disposal costs are reported as a part of loss from operations. The Company does not believe that there were any events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying amounts of its long-lived assets may not be recoverable as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Restricted Deposits Long-term restricted deposits of $204,686 and $148,040 as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, consist primarily of cash deposits required as part of the sales tender process with governmental customers in Italy and cash deposits made in connection with capital and operating leases. Foreign Currency Translation The Company has operations that are located in Italy and is working to increase its presence in other international markets. Assets and liabilities as stated in the local reporting and functional currency are translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the balance sheet date. Amounts in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss are translated at the average exchange rates for the period. The gains or losses that result from this process are shown in the Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss and consolidated statements of shareholders equity. The Company does not use financial derivatives to hedge exchange rate fluctuations. Financial Instruments The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and capital lease obligations approximate fair value due to the short-term maturity of the instruments. The Company does not speculate in the foreign exchange market. Revenue Recognition Revenue and the related cost of sales on sales of test kits and instruments are recognized when risk of loss and title passes, which is generally at the time of shipment. Net revenue is comprised of gross revenue less provisions for expected product returns, allowances, discounts and warranty claims. Provisions and discounts for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were not significant. The Company recognizes milestone payments when earned, as evidenced by written acknowledgement from the collaborator, provided that the milestone event is substantive and its achievability was not reasonably assured at the inception of the agreement, the milestone represents the culmination of an earnings process, the milestone payment is non-refundable and the Company s past research and development services, as well as the Company s ongoing commitment to provide research and development services under the collaboration, are charged at fees that are comparable to the fees that the Company customarily charges for similar research and development services. The Company also owns instruments that it places, under reagent rental programs common to the industry, for periods of time at customer facilities for usage with the Company s products ( Equipment on Lease ). 49 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) The instrument system, which remains the property of the Company, is utilized by customers to expedite the performance of certain tests and its use, including any required instrument service, is paid for by the customer through reagent kit purchases over the agreed upon contract period, typically three to five years. Upon completion of the contract period, the instrument is returned to the Company. Shipping and handling fees billed to customers are recognized in net revenue. Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales. The taxes that the Company has collected from its customers and remitted to governmental authorities are presented in the Company s consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss on a net basis. Many of the Company s customers are tax exempt organizations. Research and Development Costs Research and development costs related to future products are expensed as incurred. As described in Note 13, Related Party Transactions , the Company entered into a contract research and development agreement with ERBA Mannheim during 2011. Expenses incurred pursuant to that contract are included in cost of sales as the related revenues are recorded from the achievement of milestones. Foreign Currency Transactions The Company has assets and liabilities held in foreign currency which are translated at period-end exchange rates, and revenues and expenses are translated at average rates prevailing during the period. Certain accounts receivable from customers are collected and certain accounts payable to vendors are payable in currencies other than the functional currencies of the Company. These amounts are adjusted to reflect period-end exchange rates. The Company recognized an unrealized gain on foreign currency transactions of $187,252 during the year ended December 31, 2013. The Company recognized an unrealized loss on foreign currency transactions of $55,793 during the year ended December 31, 2012. Stock-Based Compensation Plans Stock-based compensation expense for all share-based payment awards granted after January 1, 2006 is based on the grant-date fair value estimates. Compensation costs are recognized on a straight line basis over the requisite service period of the award, which is generally the option vesting term or immediately for options vested at the date of grant. Valuations are based on highly subjective assumptions about the future, including stock price volatility and exercise patterns. The fair value of share-based payment awards was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. Expected volatilities are based on the historical volatility of the Company s stock. The Company uses historical data to estimate option exercise and employee terminations. The expected term of options granted represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding. The risk-free rate for periods within the expected life of the option is based on the United States Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the grant. The Company estimates forfeitures for employee stock options and recognizes the compensation costs for only those options expected to vest. Forfeiture rates are determined for two groups, for directors and senior management and for all other employees, based upon historical experience. Estimated forfeitures are adjusted to actual forfeiture experience as needed. The cumulative effect of the change in forfeiture rates was immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. As of December 31, 2013, the Company had stock-based employee compensation plans as described in Note 10, Shareholders Equity . The Company recorded total compensation expense of $134,000 for the year ended December 31, 2013 and $55,000 for the year ended December 31, 2012. Income (Loss) per Share Basic income (loss) per share excludes any dilution. It is based upon the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted loss per share reflects the potential dilution that would occur if securities or other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common 50 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 2 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (continued) stock. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, 450,000 and 15,854,204 shares of common stock, respectively, underlying stock options and warrants were not included in computing diluted income per share because their effects would be anti-dilutive. Fair Value Measurement The Financial Accounting Standards Board s (the FASB ) Accounting Standards Codification Topic 820 ( ASC 820 ) defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal market for the asset or liability or, in the absence of a principal market, the most advantageous market for the asset or liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. FASB ASC framework provides a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value hierarchy under FASB ASC 820 are described below: Level 1 Quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; Level 2 Inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted market prices in markets that are not active or other inputs that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3 Unobservable inputs using estimates and assumptions developed by the Company, which reflect those that a market participant would use. The asset or liability s fair value measurement level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Valuation techniques used need to maximize the use of the observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Recently Issued Accounting Standards In July 2012, the FASB issued ASU 2012-02 Intangibles-Goodwill and Other. This guidance relates to testing indefinite-lived assets for impairment and will give entities an option not to calculate annually the fair value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset if the entity determines that it is not more likely than not that the asset is impaired. This type of assessment based on qualitative factors is similar to the goodwill impairment testing in ASU 2011-08. The amendments are effective for annual and interim impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after September 15, 2012. These new requirements are not expected to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements. In February 2013, the FASB issued ASU 2013-02 Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income. This guidance requires an entity to report the effect of significant reclassifications out of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the respective line items in net income (loss) if the amount being reclassified is required under US GAAP. For other amounts that are not required under US GAAP to be reclassified, in their entirety to net income in the same reporting period, an entity is required to cross-reference other disclosures required under US GAAP that provide additional detail about those amounts. The amendments are effective prospectively for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2012. These new disclosure requirements are not expected to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements. 51 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 3 ACQUISITION OF DREW SCIENTIFIC, INC. Summary of Transaction On October 3, 2012, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Drew Scientific from a subsidiary of Escalon Medical Corp. ( Escalon ) pursuant to a Stock Purchase Agreement between, among others, the Company and Escalon. The acquired businesses had been commonly known as the Escalon Clinical Diagnostics Business, which consisted of Drew Scientific (located in Waterbury, Connecticut, and Dallas, Texas), and its wholly-owned subsidiaries JAS Diagnostics, Inc. ( JAS Diagnostics ) ( located in Miami Lakes, Florida), and Drew Scientific Limited Co. (previously located in Barrow-in-Furness, United Kingdom). This group of companies develops and sells A1c and Hematology diagnostic instruments, reagents and chemistries. Drew Scientific provides instrumentation and consumables for physician office, small hospital and veterinary research laboratories. Drew Scientific also supplies the reagent and other consumable materials needed to operate the instruments. JAS Diagnostics manufactures a broad range of chemical reagents used in in vitro diagnostics tests. The purchase price paid by the Company for the all of the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of Drew Scientific was $6,500,000, which was funded through the purchase, on October 3, 2012, by ERBA Mannheim from the Company of 8,666,667 shares of the Company s common stock at a purchase price of $0.75 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $6,500,000, pursuant to the terms of the Stock Purchase Agreement, as amended, between ERBA Mannheim and the Company. Accounting Treatment The purchase method of accounting was applied for the Drew Scientific business combination. The purchase price of $6,500,000 was allocated to net tangible and intangible assets based on their estimated fair values as of October 3, 2012, the acquisition date. The fair values determined by the Company s management represent the prices that management believes would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. The purpose of the acquisition was to integrate Drew Scientific s manufacturing and distribution capabilities with the Company s operations in an effort to achieve economies of scale and maximize the utilization of the Company s assets and facilities. Assets acquired included certain intangible assets: customer relationships (to be amortized over 4.8 years), patents (to be amortized over a weighted average estimated useful life of approximately 7 years), and trademarks/tradenames (to be amortized over 10 years). The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the identifiable assets was recorded as goodwill primarily attributable to synergies expected to be gained from the integration of Drew Scientific into the Company s existing operations. Transaction costs of approximately $211,000 associated with this acquisition were expensed as incurred through the consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss in each of the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. 52 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 3 ACQUISITION OF DREW SCIENTIFIC, INC. (continued) Below is a summary of assets acquired and liabilities assumed (rounded): Purchase price $ 6,500,000 Fair value of assets acquired: Trade accounts receivable 1,211,000 Inventories 2,093,000 Prepaid and other current assets 140,000 Property, plant and equipment 312,000 Customer relationships 1,026,000 Trademarks/tradenames 513,000 Patents 309,000 Other non-current assets 33,000 Total fair value of assets acquired 5,637,000 Fair value of liabilities assumed: Accounts payable 592,000 Accrued expenses 844,000 Deferred revenue 325,000 Total fair value of liabilities assumed 1,761,000 Fair value of net assets acquired 3,876,000 Excess of purchase price over fair value of net assets acquired $ 2,624,000 Pursuant to the Stock Purchase Agreement between the Company and Escalon, the Company executed an election under Internal Revenue Code Section 338(h)(10), on behalf of both the buyer(s) and seller(s) to treat the transaction as if it were a sale of assets for income tax purposes. The impact of this election has allowed the Company to step-up the basis of all acquired assets to fair market value in a fashion similar to the purchase accounting treatment described earlier for the financial accounting books of record. Prior to the October 3, 2012 acquisition date, the Company s management decided to cease the operations of Drew Scientific Limited Co. located in the United Kingdom and Drew Scientific s Dallas, Texas facility. As a result, the Company has accrued on the opening balance sheet as of October 3, 2012 estimated plant closing costs, including lease buy-out and severance costs, of $160,000 and $118,000, respectively. Regarding the Dallas, Texas facility, in May 2013, the Company s management initially announced that the closing would be effective in late September 2013, but subsequently made a decision to keep the Dallas facility open for the foreseeable future. With respect to the United Kingdom facility, the closing was effective in late March 2013. Included in the accompanying 2012 consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss are Drew Scientific revenues of approximately $3,391,000 and net loss of approximately $238,000 since October 3, 2012, the acquisition date. Included in the accompanying 2013 consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss are Drew Scientific revenues of approximately $13,755,000 and net income of approximately $1,614,000. Unaudited pro forma information for the year ended December 31, 2012 of the Company as though the Company had completed the acquisition of Drew Scientific as of the beginning of the year would be approximately as follows: revenues of $29,264,000; net loss of $1,368,000; and net loss per share of $0.04. This unaudited pro forma financial information is presented for informational purposes only. The unaudited pro forma financial information may not necessarily reflect our future results of operations or what the results of operations would have been had the Company owned and operated Drew Scientific as of the beginning of the periods presented. 53 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4 GOODWILL The FASB guidance for goodwill and other intangible assets uses the concept of reporting units. All acquisitions must be assigned to a reporting unit or units. Reporting units have been defined under the standards to be the same as or one level below an operating segment. The components of the carrying amount of goodwill as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: Gross Carrying Amount Accumulated Impairment Net Book Value ImmunoVision $ 6,722,725 $ (5,852,435 ) $ 870,290 JAS Diagnostics $ 2,624,329 2,624,329 $ 9,347,054 $ (5,852,435 ) $ 3,494,619 5 PRODUCT LICENSE In September 2004, the Company entered into a license agreement with an Italian diagnostics company to obtain a perpetual, worldwide, royalty-free license of product technology used by the Italian diagnostics company. This licensed hepatitis product technology is existing technology, which the Italian diagnostics company had developed and successfully commercialized to manufacture hepatitis products sold by them and for which it had already received CE Marking approval from the European Union. Through the acquisition of this existing technology in its current form, the Company expects to be able to derive revenue from the manufacture and sale of new hepatitis products. In exchange for the Italian diagnostics company s assistance in transferring the know-how of the manufacturing technology, the Company agreed to pay a total of 1,000,000 Euro in the form of four milestone payments upon the Italian diagnostics company s achievement of certain enumerated performance objectives related to the transfer of such existing technology. Three of the four milestone payments, totaling 900,000 Euro, were made in prior years. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the balance of 100,000 Euro (equivalent to approximately $132,000) was offset against the accounts receivable owed to the Company from the Italian diagnostics company. In October 2011, the Company received CE Marking granting approval for the remaining products covered under the license agreement. During the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company determined that the carrying amount of the product license was in excess of its fair value and recorded a non-cash impairment charge to operations totaling $400,000, reducing the value of the product license to $282,936 as of December 31, 2009, from $682,936 as of December 31, 2008. Fair value was determined based upon the income approach, which estimates fair value based upon future discounted cash flows. Based upon this methodology, and utilizing significant assumptions in the income approach that included a forecasted cash flow period of five years and revenue and gross margin estimates beginning in 2012, estimated future cash flows generated by the technology granted by the product license was calculated using a discount rate of 23%, reflecting the Company s best estimate of fair value. While the license is perpetual, the Company believes that the expected economic useful life of the license will be five years after the Company began to utilize the licensed technology for its intended purpose. Sales commenced in January 2013, at which time amortization of the license began. The Company amortized approximately $57,000 related to the license during the year ended December 31, 2013. The Company will amortize approximately $57,000 for each of the next four years related to the product license. 6 CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK The Company performs periodic credit evaluations of its customers financial condition and provides allowances for doubtful accounts as required. The Company maintains allowances for doubtful accounts, particularly in Italy where payment cycles are longer than in the United States, for potential credit losses based on the age of the accounts receivable and the results of the Company s periodic credit evaluations of its customers financial condition. Additionally, the Company periodically receives payments based upon 54 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 6 CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK (continued) negotiated agreements with governmental regions in Italy, acting on behalf of hospitals located in the region, in satisfaction of previously outstanding accounts receivable balances. A substantial portion of the Company s accounts receivable and revenues are derived from Delta Biologicals, the Company s subsidiary located in Italy, and its operations may be affected by the recent fiscal and debt crisis the Italian government is facing. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, Delta Biologicals accounts receivable, primarily due from Italian companies, were approximately $4,647,000 and $4,394,000, respectively. Amounts due from hospitals and laboratories controlled by the Italian government as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 were approximately $1,700,000 and $1,719,000, respectively, which accounted for approximately 24% and 27%, respectively, of the Company s consolidated net accounts receivable. Delta Biologicals recognized revenues during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 in the amount of approximately $5,138,000 and $5,032,000, respectively, which represented approximately 18% and 26%, respectively, of the Company s consolidated net revenues. In recent years, the Italian government has been experiencing severe fiscal and debt crises and a recession, including its increasingly uncertain ability to service its sovereign debt obligations, caused in part by the declining global markets and economic conditions. Accordingly, the Company is subject to certain economic, business and, in particular, credit risk if its customers located in Italy, which are hospitals or laboratories controlled by the Italian government, do not pay amounts owed to the Company, extend payment cycles even further or ask the Company to accept a lower payment amount than is owed to the Company. The Company s current allowances for doubtful accounts, although currently believed by management to be adequate, may not be adequate and the Company may be required to make additional allowances, which would adversely affect, and could materially adversely affect, the Company s operating results in the period in which the determination or allowance is or was made. Any of these factors could materially and adversely affect the Company s business, prospects, operating results, financial condition and cash flows in the near term. The Company s cash management and investment policies restrict investments to low-risk, highly liquid securities, and the Company performs periodic evaluations of the credit standing of the financial institutions with which it deals. A significant portion of the Company s cash and cash equivalents are presently held at one international securities brokerage firm. Accordingly, the Company is subject to credit risk of approximately $1,704,000 if this brokerage firm is unable to repay the balance in the account or deliver the Company s securities or if the brokerage firm should become bankrupt or otherwise insolvent. The Company s cash balances exceed federally insured limits by approximately $954,020 as of December 31, 2013. 7 INCOME TAXES The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012: 2013 2012 Current: Domestic $ $ 10,500 Foreign 50,266 30,856 Deferred: Domestic 68,788 80,689 Total $ 119,054 $ 122,045 55 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 7 INCOME TAXES (continued) The components of income (loss) before income taxes are as follows for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012: 2013 2012 Domestic $ 1,056,504 $ (948,194 ) Foreign (261,622 ) (483,117 ) Total $ 794,882 $ (1,431,311 ) The significant components of the net deferred income tax asset balances are as follows as of December 31, 2013 and 2012: 2013 2012 Current: Accounts receivable allowances $ 301,628 $ 275,413 Reserves and accruals 248,119 384,065 Capitalized inventory costs 102,742 116,897 Other 608 608 Valuation allowance (653,097 ) (776,983 ) Deferred income taxes Long-term: Depreciation and basis differences on tangible and intangible assets 396,524 305,052 Stock based compensation 410,987 359,397 Other (53,372 ) 20,433 Foreign net operating losses 1,005,901 931,213 Domestic net operating losses 7,063.328 7,411,884 Valuation allowance (8,823,368 ) (9,027,979 ) Net deferred tax asset $ $ The net deferred income tax liability balance consists of tax deductible goodwill of $578,153 and $509,365, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Company s deferred tax assets or liabilities are computed based upon the difference between the financial statement and income tax basis of assets and liabilities using the enacted marginal tax rate applicable when the related asset or liability is expected to be realized or settled. Deferred income tax expenses or benefits are based on the changes in the asset or liability from period to period. If available evidence suggests that it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized, then a valuation allowance is required to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Future changes in such valuation allowance would be included in the provision for deferred income taxes in the period of change. The Company has established a full valuation allowance on its net domestic deferred tax assets, which are primarily comprised of net operating loss carryforwards. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company had no net domestic deferred tax assets. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company had net deferred tax liabilities of $578,153 and $509,365, respectively, relating to tax deductible goodwill which is not expected to reverse in the foreseeable future. Additionally, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company also had no net foreign deferred tax asset, as a full valuation allowance was provided. Future changes in the estimated net realizable value of the deferred tax assets or deferred tax liabilities could cause the provision for income taxes to vary significantly from period to period. 56 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 7 INCOME TAXES (continued) A reconciliation of the difference between the expected provision (benefit) for income taxes using the statutory U.S. Federal tax rate and the Company s actual provision (benefit) is as follows for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012: 2013 2012 Provision (benefit) for income taxes at U.S. Federal statutory rate of 35% $ 298,591 $ (500,959 ) Change in valuation allowance (excluding portion relating to stock options) (328,498 ) 239,458 Foreign tax rate differential 63,480 293,028 Global permanent differences 85,481 90,518 Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ 119,054 $ 122,045 The Company s income tax provision or benefit for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was different from the amount computed on the loss before provision (benefit) for income taxes at the statutory rate of 35% primarily due to changes in the valuation allowance, foreign tax rate differential and global permanent differences. The Company recorded a net income tax provision of $119,054 during the year ended December 31, 2013 and a net income tax provision of $122,045 during 2012. Domestic net operating losses generated by the Company total $18,110,000 as of December 31, 2013 and are subject to any applicable limitations as described below. The net operating losses included in the domestic net deferred tax asset will begin to expire in 2022. Under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code, the Company s use of its net operating loss carryforwards will be limited in the future as a result of the September 1, 2010 acquisition by ERBA Mannheim of the approximately 72.4% of the then outstanding shares of the Company s common stock previously owned by the Debregeas-Kennedy Group. As a result of that acquisition, the Company s ability to utilize net operating loss carryforwards to offset any future taxable income is currently limited to approximately $825,000 per year, plus both any limitation unused since the acquisition and any unused net operating losses generated after the September 1, 2010 acquisition date. The amount of the annual limitation will be adjusted upwards for any recognized built-in gains on certain assets sold during the five year period commencing with the ownership change. The limitations of these net operating loss carryforwards did not impact the Company s results for the years ended December 31, 2013 or 2012. United States income taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries, as such earnings are being retained indefinitely by such subsidiaries for reinvestment. The distribution of these earnings would first reduce the domestic valuation allowance before resulting in additional United States income taxes. As of December 31, 2013, the Company s Federal income tax returns for the years 2010 through 2013 and, with respect to foreign operations, the Italian income tax returns for 2009 through 2013 remain subject to examination. Although the Company s Federal income tax returns from 2002 through 2009 are not generally open to examination, the Company remains subject to adjustments in these years to the extent of the net operating losses being carried forward from those years. No examinations are currently in progress with any taxing authorities. Regarding the accounting for uncertainties in income taxes, the Company recognizes the financial statement liability of a tax position only after determining that the relevant tax authority would more likely than not sustain the position following an audit. For tax positions meeting the more-likely-than-not threshold, the amount recognized in the financial statements is the largest liability that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the relevant tax authority. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, 57 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 7 INCOME TAXES (continued) the Company had no unrecognized tax liabilities. If uncertain tax positions had been recorded, then the Company would recognize interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in income tax expense. Under the Internal Revenue Code, pursuant to the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 and in conjunction with the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, a new excise tax has been imposed on the sale of certain medical devices beginning on January 1, 2013. This medical device excise tax has been imposed on manufacturers, importers and producers of certain devices listed with the FDA. During the year ended December 31, 2013, the Company accrued approximately $185,000 in connection with its obligation to pay the new medical device excise tax. 8 EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS The Company has a 401(k) employee savings plan which allows for pre-tax employee payroll contributions and discretionary employer matching contributions. The Company did not make any matching contributions during the year ended December 31, 2013. Matching contributions during the year ended December 31, 2012 were $112,970. Drew Scientific adopted a 401(k) retirement plan for Drew Scientific s United States employees. Employer contributions are discretionary; no employer contributions have been made to the 401(k) retirement plan since Drew Scientific was acquired by Escalon on July 23, 2004. This plan has continued subsequent to October 3, 2012, the date of the acquisition of Drew Scientific by the Company; during the year ended December 31, 2013, this plan was merged into the Company s 401(k) employee savings plan. Drew Scientific also had a defined contribution retirement plan. This plan had continued subsequent to October 3, 2012 and was available only to Drew Scientific s United Kingdom employees. Employer contributions since the date of acquisition through December 31, 2012 were not material; the plan was terminated in February 2013 as part of the closure of the United Kingdom facility. 9 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER LONG-TERM LIABILITIES Accrued expenses consist of the following as of December 31, 2013 and 2012: 2013 2012 Payroll costs $ 645,943 $ 892,564 Taxes, primarily VAT 800,756 572,095 Professional fees 583,991 277,416 Royalties 65,270 82,562 Accrued acquisition costs 70,004 Accrued plant closing costs 172,632 274,888 Deferred revenue 249,159 406,840 Other 376,679 233,078 Balance as of December 31 $ 2,894,430 $ 2,809,447 Other long-term liabilities of $1,027,425 as of December 31, 2013, and $993,980 as of December 31, 2012, consist primarily of Italian employee leaving indemnity. Italian law provides that each employee is entitled to receive a payment upon severance of employment. The amounts vest immediately and are adjusted for inflation. 58 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 10 SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Common Stock On March 14, 2001, b2bstores.com Inc. (now known as ERBA Diagnostics, Inc.), IVAX Corporation and the pre-merger IVAX Diagnostics consummated a merger of the pre-merger IVAX Diagnostics into b2bstores.com pursuant to which all of the issued and outstanding shares of the pre-merger IVAX Diagnostics were converted into 20,000,000 shares of b2bstores.com stock and b2bstores.com s name was changed to IVAX Diagnostics, Inc. Concurrent with the approval of the merger between b2bstores.com and the pre-merger IVAX Diagnostics, the Company amended its certificate of incorporation to increase the number of shares of authorized common stock from 25,000,000 to 50,000,000. On June 10, 2011, the Company amended its certificate of incorporation to increase the number of shares of authorized common stock from 50,000,000 to 100,000,000. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company entered into various agreements and transactions with its majority stockholder. See Note 13, Related Party Transactions . Share Repurchase Program In 2002, the Company s Board of Directors approved a program to repurchase up to 2,000,000 shares of the Company s publicly held common stock. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company did not repurchase any shares of its common stock. The total number of shares of common stock repurchased by the Company since the inception of its repurchase program is 1,184,573. Equity Incentive Plans On June 3, 2009, the Company s stockholders approved the Company s 2009 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2009 Plan ), which the Company s Board of Directors had approved and recommended. The 2009 Plan is the successor plan to both of the Company s previously adopted equity incentive compensation plans the 1999 Performance Equity Plan (the Performance Plan ) and the 1999 Stock Option Plan (the 1999 Plan, and together with the Performance Plan, collectively, the Prior Plans ). As a result of the approval of the 2009 Plan, the Company will not make any future grants under the Prior Plans. In addition to the 1,561,072 shares of the Company s common stock that remained available for grant from the Prior Plans prior to June 3, 2009, an additional 2,000,000 shares of common stock were authorized for grant under the 2009 Plan. The Company s Performance Plan was created on September 30, 1999 upon approval by the Board of Directors and stockholders of b2bstores.com. The Performance Plan authorized the grant of up to 2,000,000 shares of common stock of the Company to key employees, officers, directors and consultants. As a result of the approval of the 2009 Plan, the Company will not grant any additional awards under the Performance Plan. 59 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 10 SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY (continued) Options granted under these option plans were granted at an option exercise price equal to or greater than the closing market value of the stock on the date of the grant and with vesting, primarily for Company employees, ranging from all at once to equal annual amounts over a four year period, and, for non-employee directors, immediately. The options generally have a term of 10 years. The following table summarizes the stock option activity (both outstanding and exercisable) as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 and changes during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 under the Performance Plan and the 2009 Plan: Number of Shares Weighted Average Exercise Price Balance as of December 31, 2011 1,020,870 $ 1.36 Granted 100,000 $ 0.55 Balance as of December 31, 2012 1,120,870 $ 1.28 Granted 100,000 $ 1.52 Forfeited 50,000 $ 0.65 Balance as of December 31, 2013 1,170,870 $ 1.33 Options Outstanding and Exercisable Range of Exercise Prices Number of Shares Weighted Average Remaining Contractual Life (In Years) Weighted Average Price $0.00 $0.50 100,000 5.3 $ 0.48 $0.51 $0.75 445,870 6.1 $ 0.58 $0.76 $1.00 175,000 4.6 $ 0.96 $1.01 $1.50 100,000 4.7 $ 1.20 $1.51 $3.00 200,000 6.2 $ 1.54 $3.01 $6.00 150,000 1.5 $ 4.37 1,170,870 5.3 $ 1.33 The aggregate intrinsic value of options outstanding and exercisable was $1,884,000 and $179,000 as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, all outstanding options were vested and therefore there was no unrecognized compensation cost. No windfall tax benefits were recognized during the years ended December 31, 2013 or 2012. 60 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 11 SEGMENT INFORMATION The Company s management reviews financial information, allocates resources and manages its business by geographic region. The domestic region, which includes corporate expenditures, contains the Company s subsidiaries in the United States. The domestic region includes the operations of Drew Scientific and its subsidiaries from and after the acquisition date of October 3, 2012; see Note 3, Acquisition of Drew Scientific, Inc. The European region contains Delta Biologicals, the Company s subsidiary located in Italy, and, from and after the acquisition date of October 3, 2012 and until late March 2013, Drew Scientific Limited Co. The information provided is based on internal reports and was developed and utilized by management to track trends and changes in the results of the regions. The information, including the allocations of expense and overhead, was calculated based on a management approach and may not reflect the actual economic costs, contributions or results of operations of the regions as stand-alone businesses. If a different basis of presentation or allocation were utilized, the relative contributions of the regions might differ but the relative trends would, in management s view, likely not be materially impacted. The table below sets forth net revenues, loss from operations, total assets and goodwill by region for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012: Domestic European Eliminations Total December 31, 2013: External net sales $ 23,117,502 $ 5,137,815 $ $ 28,255,317 Intercompany sales 488,764 19,615 (508,379 ) Net revenue $ 23,606,266 $ 5,157,430 ($508,379 ) $ 28,255,317 Income (loss) from operations $ 1,137,515 ($100,790 ) $ $ 1,036,725 Assets $ 40,287,271 $ 6,047,420 ($20,460,225 ) $ 25,874,466 Goodwill $ 3,494,619 $ $ $ 3,494,619 December 31, 2012: External net sales $ 14,316,923 $ 5,032,081 $ $ 19,349,004 Intercompany sales 575,210 115,141 (690,351 ) Net revenue $ 14,892,133 $ 5,147,222 ($690,351 ) $ 19,349,004 (Loss) from operations ($821,019 ) ($382,142 ) $ ($1,203,161 ) Assets $ 38,785,080 $ 6,163,472 ($20,394,784 ) $ 24,553,768 Goodwill $ 3,494,619 $ $ $ 3,494,619 12 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES Leases As of December 31, 2013, the Company is a lessee under non-cancelable leases with third parties. These arrangements are described below. ImmunoVision has a lease agreement, which commenced on August 1, 2000 and was amended in July 2012, for office and warehouse space in Bentonville, Arkansas. The amended lease expires on July 31, 2016 and provides for annual rent expense of $72,000 through July 31, 2014 and $73,440 through July 31, 2016. Delta Biologicals has a lease agreement, which commenced on September 1, 2011, for office and warehouse space in Pomezia, Italy. The lease expires on August 31, 2017 and provides for annual rent expense of Euro 120,000 (equivalent to approximately $159,000 as of December 31, 2013). The lease also provides for one six-year renewal option. 61 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 12 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES (continued) JAS Diagnostics has a lease agreement, which commenced on January 1, 2010 and was amended in March 2013, for its corporate headquarters and warehouse facilities in Miami Lakes, Florida. The amended lease expires on December 31, 2019 and provides for annual rent expense for the existing space and two expansion premises, as follows for each of the succeeding five years: 2014, $391,150; 2015, $401,280; 2016, $417,657; 2017, $434,024; and 2018, $451,386. The amended lease also provides for one five-year renewal option at a market rental rate. Drew Scientific also had a lease agreement, which commenced on December 15, 2012, for office and warehouse space in Waterbury, Connecticut. The lease expired on December 31, 2013. Drew Scientific continues to lease the space on a month to month basis. The Company has various equipment and vehicle operating leases with third parties that expire from March 2012 through February 2017. Aggregate rent expense under all operating leases for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 totaled approximately $735,000 and $496,000, respectively. The future minimum lease payments for the next five years under these and other non-cancelable operating leases with initial or remaining terms of one year or more as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: 2014 $ 822,000 2015 710,000 2016 650,000 2017 590,000 2018 451,000 Total minimum lease payments $ 3,223,000 During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company entered into a 36-month capital lease agreement with the same financing company for bottling equipment for its production facility in Miami, Florida. The terms of the lease agreement require that the Company make equal monthly payments and grant the Company the option to purchase the equipment at the end of the lease for an amount not to exceed 22% of the original price for which the financing company purchased such equipment. The asset and liability under this capital lease are recorded at the lower of the present value of the minimum lease payments or the fair value of the asset. The asset is depreciated over its estimated productive life (cost of $222,000, net of accumulated depreciation of $91,000). Depreciation of $28,000 in the year ended December 31, 2013 and $25,000 in the year ended December 31, 2012 was included in cost of sales. The lease agreement expired in March 2013. The Company continued to lease the equipment upon the maturity of the lease agreement under an operating lease for monthly lease payments of approximately $7,000. The Company will retain ownership of the equipment in August 2014. There was no capital lease obligation as of December 31, 2013. The capital lease obligation as of December 31, 2012 was approximately $22,000 and was included in the current capital lease obligations in the 2012 consolidated balance sheet. Interest expense for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 was approximately $15,000 in both of the years. Litigation, Claims and Assessments The Company is involved in various legal claims and actions and regulatory matters, and other notices and demand proceedings arising in the ordinary course of business. While it is not possible to predict or determine the outcome of these proceedings, in the opinion of management, based on a review with legal counsel, any losses resulting from such legal proceedings would not have a material adverse impact on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company. 62 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 13 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Certain Relationships and Related Transactions During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company sold products to Transasia and a subsidiary of ERBA Mannheim for a total amount of approximately $606,000 and approximately $501,000 respectively. During 2011, Delta Biologicals entered into a contract research and development agreement with ERBA Mannheim, as amended, for a total of Euro 754,700, pursuant to which ERBA Mannheim has agreed to pay the subsidiary a total amount of Euro 133,000 (equivalent to approximately $186,000) during the year ended December 31, 2011 and an additional Euro 621,700 (equivalent to approximately $799,000) during the year ended December 31, 2012 for the results of certain research and development. Delta Biologicals incurred additional expenses related to the research and development mentioned above which were billed to ERBA Mannheim for reimbursement. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, contract research and development revenue under the above mentioned agreement approximated Euro 675,000 (equivalent to approximately $896,000) and Euro 650,000 (equivalent to approximately $836,000), respectively. The Company had net accounts receivable from ERBA Mannheim and Transasia of $1,835,000 and $644,000 as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, related to the above transactions and receivables from the sale of products and the reimbursement of various expenditures incurred on behalf of ERBA Mannheim. On June 15, 2012, the Company entered into a use of name license agreement with ERBA Mannheim granting a royalty-free, non-exclusive license to use the name ERBA for an annual fee of one dollar. The license agreement will be terminated upon the earlier of (a) the transfer by ERBA Mannheim to the Company of all of ERBA Mannheim s rights, title and interest in and to the use of the name and any stylized logos or marks associated with the name (the date that such transfer becomes effective, the Transfer Date ) and (b) such time, if any, as ERBA Mannheim no longer owns, directly or indirectly, shares of the Company s common stock representing more than 50% of the issued and outstanding shares of such stock (the Share Threshold Date ). Furthermore, ERBA Mannheim may terminate the license agreement at any time prior to the earlier of the Transfer Date and the Share Threshold Date: (a) upon providing the Company 180 days prior written notice of its intent to terminate and the date upon which the license agreement shall terminate; or (b) upon providing the Company 30 days prior written notice of any breach of the license agreement by the Company, which breach remains uncured at the end of such 30 day period. In December 2012, JAS Diagnostics entered into a Research and Development Outsourcing Agreement with Erba Diagnostics France SARL ( Erba Diagnostics France ), pursuant to which JAS Diagnostics has agreed to pay Erba Diagnostics France a total amount of Euro 350,000 (equivalent to approximately $462,500) plus additional material costs, in seven monthly installments of Euro 50,000 from December 2012 through June 2013, for certain research and development endeavors. The initial payment of Euro 50,000 (equivalent to approximately $64,900) is included in research and development expenses in the accompanying consolidated statement of operations and comprehensive loss for the year ended December 31, 2012. On July 24, 2013, JAS Diagnostics and Erba Diagnostics France mutually terminated the agreement above and Erba Diagnostics France agreed to refund to JAS Diagnostics all amounts paid under the agreement within 90 days. The Company continued to pay for the research and development costs through October 2013. The Company incurred total research and development costs of approximately $913,000, all of which were reimbursed by Erba Diagnostics France during the year ended December 31, 2013. The reimbursed research and development costs were recognized as a reduction to research and development expense included in the 2013 consolidated statement of operations. 63 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 13 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (continued) Common Stock and Equity Transactions The Company entered into the Stock Purchase Agreement with ERBA Mannheim, on April 8, 2011, pursuant to which the Company agreed to sell and issue to ERBA Mannheim an aggregate of 20,000,000 shares of the Company s common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $15,000,000, or $0.75 per share of the Company s common stock, and warrants to purchase an additional 20,000,000 shares of the Company s common stock. The consummation of the investment contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement was subject to, among other things, the approval of holders of at least 66- 2/3% of the issued and outstanding shares of the Company s common stock (excluding any shares beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by ERBA Mannheim). At the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on June 10, 2011, the required approval of the Company s stockholders was achieved. On June 30, 2011, ERBA Mannheim paid the Company $5,000,000 in order to consummate the initial transactions contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement (the Initial Closing ). As a result, at the Initial Closing, the Company issued to ERBA Mannheim 6,666,667 shares of common stock and, in connection with the consummation of the initial transactions contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement, a warrant to purchase an additional 20,000,000 shares of common stock (the Warrant ). After giving effect to transaction costs of $399,700 relating to the Stock Purchase Agreement, the Company received net proceeds of $4,600,300 at the consummation of the initial transactions contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement. The Warrant has a five year term and an exercise price per share of the Company s common stock of $0.75 and is exercisable only to the extent that shares of the Company s common stock have been purchased under the Stock Purchase Agreement. On April 16, 2012, ERBA Mannheim exercised, in part, the Warrant by paying an aggregate exercise price of $450,000 and, in connection therewith, the Company issued to ERBA Mannheim 600,000 shares of the Company s common stock. A total of 19,400,000 warrants remain unexercised as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Warrant was exercisable for 14,733,334 shares of the Company s common stock. Pursuant to amendments to the Stock Purchase Agreement on December 29, 2011 and October 3, 2012, each of which was unanimously approved by the independent directors on the Board of Directors, the Company and ERBA Mannheim agreed that the Company would sell and issue to ERBA Mannheim, and ERBA Mannheim would purchase from the Company, 8,666,667 shares of common stock at the second closing of the transactions contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement (the Second Closing ) for an aggregate purchase price of $6,500,000, or $0.75 per share, and 4,666,666 shares of common stock at the final closing of the transactions contemplated by the Stock Purchase Agreement (the Final Closing ) for an aggregate purchase price of $3,500,000, or $0.75 per share. In addition, pursuant to the amendments to the Stock Purchase Agreement, the Company and ERBA Mannheim agreed to hold the Second Closing as promptly as practicable on or after October 3, 2012 and to hold the Final Closing on the date that is 60 days after the date on which a majority of the independent directors on the Board of Directors determines by vote or written consent that such issuance, sale and purchase shall occur and causes notice thereof to be delivered to ERBA Mannheim. The Second Closing was held on October 3, 2012, at which time ERBA Mannheim paid the $6,500,000 aggregate purchase price to the Company, and, in connection therewith, the Company issued to ERBA Mannheim 8,666,667 shares of the Company s common stock. As described in Note 3, Acquisition of Drew Scientific, Inc. , the Company used all of the proceeds of the Second Closing to consummate the acquisition of Drew Scientific. 64 TABLE OF CONTENTS ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 13 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (continued) Other Transactions During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, ImmunoVision paid $10,000 and $24,000, respectively, to John B. Harley, M.D., Ph.D., a member of the Board of Directors, under that certain oral consulting agreement between Dr. Harley, and ImmunoVision pursuant to which Dr. Harley was paid $2,000 per month in consideration for his provision of technical guidance and business assistance to the subsidiary on an as-needed basis. The oral consulting agreement ended in May 2013. Pursuant to a license agreement between the Company and Dr. Harley, he has granted an exclusive worldwide license to the Company for certain patents, rights and technology relating to monoclonal antibodies against autoimmune RNA proteins developed by him in exchange for specified royalty payments, including an annual minimum royalty of $10,000 for each licensed product utilized by the Company. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Company paid $10,000 under such royalty agreement. The amounts paid to Dr. Harley were in addition to the amounts he received for his service as member of the Company s Board of Directors and the committees of the Board of Directors on which he served. 14 REVOLVING LINE OF CREDIT On June 10, 2011, Diamedix entered into a Loan Agreement with City National Bank of Florida, which provided for a secured, revolving credit facility of up to $975,000 (the Old Line of Credit ). As described below, the Company closed down the Old Line of Credit and the Company entered into a new loan agreement with Citibank, N.A. Amounts outstanding under the Old Line of Credit accrued interest at an annual rate equal to the 30-day LIBOR plus 4.00%, and the loan was to become due and payable on June 10, 2013. Closing costs and other transaction costs aggregating $101,482 were incurred in 2011 related to the loan agreement and the Old Line of Credit. These costs have been classified as debt issuance costs on the accompanying consolidated balance sheets (included in other current assets) were amortized over the 24-month term of the Old Line of Credit commencing in June 2011. Amortization expense for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $50,736. In connection with establishing the New Line of Credit, as discussed below, Diamedix contemporaneously closed the Old Line of Credit with City National Bank of Florida. The payoff amount at closing was $975,000. On March 1, 2013, the Company entered into that certain Business Loan Agreement and that certain Promissory Note with Citibank, N.A. ( Citibank ), which provides for a secured, revolving credit facility of up to $2,000,000 (the New Line of Credit ). Amounts outstanding under the New Line of Credit will accrue interest at an annual rate equal to the 30-day LIBOR plus 1.75% (1.92% at December 31, 2013) and will become due and payable on December 31, 2014, subject to acceleration upon the occurrence of certain specified events of default that the Company believes are customary for transactions of this type. Pursuant to the business loan agreement, the Company will be subject to certain specified positive and negative covenants (including, without limitation, the requirements to maintain a specified capital base of not less than $8,500,000 and a specified leverage ratio, as defined, of not less than 2.0-to-1.0) that the Company believes are customary for transactions of this type. Amounts outstanding under the New Line of Credit have been collateralized by all of the assets of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries located in the United States Diamedix, ImmunoVision, and Drew Scientific. In addition, each of Diamedix, ImmunoVision and Drew Scientific has guaranteed the repayment of amounts drawn on the New Line of Credit. Further, Transasia, the indirect parent company of the Company, has also guaranteed the repayment of amounts drawn on the New Line of Credit. As of December 31, 2013, approximately $1,905,000 was outstanding under the New Line of Credit. 65 TABLE OF CONTENTS °Item 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE Previously reported. °Item 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures As of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our management evaluated, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based upon that evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that, because of the material weakness described below, our disclosure controls and procedures are not effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Notwithstanding the material weakness described below, our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, has concluded that the consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K present fairly, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented in conformity with GAAP. Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with GAAP and includes those policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of our assets; provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a material affect on our financial statements. As of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, our management evaluated, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This evaluation was conducted using the framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based upon that evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of December 31, 2013, because there was a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Specifically, through that evaluation, our management identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as a result of our inadequate staffing of our financial accounting office, which has resulted in, among other things, at times us being unable to provide timely account reconciliations. Our remediation efforts to address this material weakness are ongoing and include, among other things, hiring additional qualified personnel and evaluating or undertaking certain improvements to our systems and processes, which, if successful, we believe will be sufficient to provide us with the ability to remediate or cure this material weakness in the future. If this material weakness is not remediated or cured, then this deficiency in internal control over financial reporting could adversely affect the timing and accuracy of our financial reporting. 66 TABLE OF CONTENTS This Annual Report on Form 10-K does not include an attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our internal control over financial reporting. Our management s report on internal control over financial reporting was not subject to attestation by our independent registered public accounting firm pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission that permit us to provide only our management s report on internal control over financial reporting in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting We have implemented accounting systems, as well as standards, policies and procedures, at Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics, in an effort to ensure that we have in place appropriate internal control over financial reporting at Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics. Additionally, our remediation efforts are ongoing to address the material weakness as described above. Except as set forth in the preceding sentences with respect to Drew Scientific and JAS Diagnostics and with respect to our efforts to remediate our material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting, there were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2013 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. °Item 9B. OTHER INFORMATION None. 67 TABLE OF CONTENTS PART III °Item 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Certain information regarding our directors and our executive officers, which is required by Item 10, is set forth below. The remaining information required by Item 10 will be provided by incorporating such remaining information required under such item by reference to the registrant s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or, alternatively, by amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K under cover of Form 10-K/A no later than the end of such 120-day period. The following table sets forth information with respect to our directors and our executive officers as of April 4, 2014. Name Age Position Suresh Vazirani 64 Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors Sanjiv Suri 55 Interim Chief Executive Officer and Director Mohan Gopalkrishnan 58 Vice President Operations Prakash Patel 45 Assistant Controller Kishore Kris Dudani 59 Director Philippe Gadal, Pharm.D. 57 Director Gerald E. Gallwas 77 Director John B. Harley, M.D., Ph.D. 64 Director David M. Templeton 61 Director Set forth below are the names, ages, positions held and business experience, including during the past five years, of our directors and our executive officers as of April 4, 2014. In addition, the information set forth below with respect to each director includes the specific experience, qualifications, attributes and/or skills of the director which, in the opinion of our Board of Directors, qualifies him to serve as a director and are likely to enhance the Board of Directors ability to manage and direct our business and affairs. Officers serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Suresh Vazirani has served as the Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors since September 2010. Mr. Vazirani has served as the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of ERBA Diagnostics Mannheim GmbH, an in vitro diagnostics company headquartered in Germany, since 2002 and the Chairman and Managing Director of Transasia Bio-Medicals Ltd., a diversified research and development-based, export-oriented in vitro diagnostics company headquartered in India and the parent company of ERBA Mannheim, since 1985. He has also served as the Statutory Body of Erba Lachema s.r.o, an in vitro diagnostics company headquartered in Czech Republic, since 2010 and as the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Erba Diasis Diagnostik Sistemler Sanavi Ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi, an in vitro diagnostics company headquartered in Turkey, since 2011. As described above, ERBA Mannheim beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, approximately 82.4% of the outstanding shares of our common stock. With over 25 years of experience in leading companies belonging to the in vitro diagnostics industry, the Board of Directors believes that Mr. Vazirani brings strategic insight and leadership and a wealth of knowledge regarding the diagnostics industry to the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors also believes that Mr. Vazirani s experience in, and knowledge of, the international in vitro diagnostics market contributes greatly to the composition of the Board of Directors and provides a valuable resource to us. In addition, Mr. Vazirani serves as a Trustee of Moral Re-Armament, an organization located in Panchgani, India. Mr. Vazirani is the first cousin of Kishore Kris Dudani. Sanjiv Suri has served as a director on the Board of Directors since May 8, 2013 and has served as the Company s Interim Chief Executive Officer since August 1, 2013. Mr. Suri has served as President International Business of ERBA Diagnostics Mannheim GmbH since June 2011. Prior to that time, Mr. Suri had served in various roles with Bio-Rad Laboratories since 1985. The Board of Directors believes that Mr. Suri s background in the in vitro diagnostics industry allows him to contribute valuable insight to the Board of Directors and that his insights and experience in international business with respect to in vitro diagnostic products will be valuable in helping to guide the Company in the years ahead. 68 TABLE OF CONTENTS Mohan Gopalkrishnan has served as our Vice President Operations since October 2012. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Gopalkrishnan spent 15 years with Becton Dickinson in a number of leadership roles including as Senior Director with global responsibility for the pre-analytical systems business unit, Business Director of the Asia-Pacific region, ERP Leader of the Asia-Pacific region and General Manager of the medical/surgical division. Prakash Patel has served as our Assistant Controller since June 3, 2013. Mr. Patel became our Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer on June 30, 2013. Prior to joining our company, Mr. Patel was Controller of Perry Baromedical Corporation from 2011 to May 2013, and Corporate Controller of PostiveID Health Care Products from 2007 to 2011. Kishore Kris Dudani has served as a director on the Board of Directors since September 2010. Since 2004, Mr. Dudani has served as the Marketing and Business Development Representative South, Central and Latin America, of ERBA Mannheim. The Board of Directors believes that Mr. Dudani s background in the in vitro diagnostics industry allows him to contribute valuable insight to the Board of Directors and that his insights and experience in the field of international marketing of in vitro diagnostic products will be valuable in helping to guide us in the years ahead. Mr. Dudani is the first cousin of Suresh Vazirani. Dr. Philippe Gadal has served as a director on the Board of Directors since September 2010. Since January 2013, Dr. Gadal has served as the U.S. Deputy for Industry Sales and Marketing for BioMerieux, an in vitro diagnostics company. Since 2009, Dr. Gadal has served as the Chief Executive Officer of AES Chemunex Inc., a manufacturer and developer of tests, equipment and reagents for microbiological laboratories. From 2003 through 2008, he served as the Chief Executive Officer of Trinity Biotech USA Inc., the United States subsidiary of Trinity Biotech PLC, an international diagnostics company which specializes in the development, manufacture and marketing of diagnostic test kits. Prior to joining Trinity Biotech, Dr. Gadal served in a variety of positions for companies involved in the in vitro diagnostics industry, including: General Manager of Diagnostica Stago Inc., a private medical devices company, from 1995 through 2003; Director of Hematology for Roche Diagnostics, a subsidiary of Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd., a leading company in the field of pharmaceutical and diagnostics, from 1993 through 1995; Director of the Hematology Business Unit for ABX France, a subsidiary of Hoffman-La Roche, from 1991 through 1992; President of ABX USA, a medical devices company which specializes in hematology, from 1998 through 1990; and Sales Representative for and subsequently National Sales Manager of Technicon, an international medical devices company, from 1984 through 1988. He received a Doctorate of Pharmacy (Pharm. D.) from Paul Sabatier University in France. The Board of Directors believes that Dr. Gadal s vast experience as an executive officer of companies within the life sciences industry and his international background provides him with the ability to contribute valuable insight to the Board of Directors with respect to our business and technologies. Gerald Gallwas has served as a director on the Board of Directors since September 2011. Mr. Gallwas was a member of the original team that founded and managed the growth of what became the clinical diagnostic business of Beckman Instruments. He retired after 30 years of service. Mr. Gallwas currently serves on the boards of directors of Medica Corporation and the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation and was previously the President of Sangy, Inc., an in vitro diagnostics consulting business. The Board of Directors believes that Mr. Gallwas vast experience within the diagnostics industry provides him with the ability to contribute valuable insight to the Board of Directors with respect to our business and technologies and to offer valuable assistance in helping to guide us in the years ahead. Dr. John B. Harley has served as a director on the Board of Directors since the Company s merger with the pre-merger IVAX Diagnostics in 2001. Since June 2010, Dr. Harley has served as Director, Rheumatology Division, and Director, Center for Autoimmune Genomics and Etiology (CAGE), for Cincinnati Children s Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio and is Professor of Pediatrics and Medicine, Affiliated, at the University of Cincinnati. He previously held various positions at the University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center beginning in 1982. In the Department of Medicine, his positions included Chief of Rheumatology, Allergy and Immunology Section (1999 to 2010), James R. McEldowney Chair in Immunology and Professor of Medicine (1992 to 2007), Vice Chair for Research (2000 to 2004), George Lynn Cross Research Professor (1999 to 2010), Associate Professor (1986 to 1992) and Assistant Professor (1982 to 1986). During that period, Dr. Harley also held Adjunct Professorships in Pathology and Microbiology at the University of 69 TABLE OF CONTENTS Oklahoma Health Sciences Center. Since 1982, Dr. Harley was also associated with the Oklahoma Medical Research Foundation s Arthritis and Immunology Program as Program Head (1999 to 2010), Member (1998 to 2010), Associate Member (1989 to 1998), Affiliated Associate Member (1986 to 1989) and Affiliated Assistant Member (1982 to 1986). Dr. Harley also served as a Staff Physician (1982, 1984 to 1987 and 1992 to 2010) and a Clinical Investigator (1987 to 1992), Immunology Section, Medical Service at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and since July 2010, at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio. In 1981 and 1982, Dr. Harley was a Postdoctoral Fellow in Rheumatology with the Arthritis Branch of the National Institute of Arthritis, Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institute of Health, Bethesda, Maryland. He was also a Clinical Associate at the Laboratory of Immunoregulation, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland from 1979 to 1982. Dr. Harley was a member of the board of directors of JK Autoimmunity, Inc., and he currently is the Secretary and Treasurer and a member of the boards of directors of Dynamic Ventures, Inc. and VRB Associates, Inc. As the longest tenured member of the Board of Directors, Dr. Harley brings an unparalleled depth of experience in the medical diagnostics sector combined with an intimate knowledge of our operational, financial and strategic development. In addition, the Board of Directors believes that Dr. Harley s strong academic background and medical research history, particularly within the medical diagnostics field, further contributes to the strategic composition of the Board of Directors. David M. Templeton has served as a director on the Board of Directors since September 2010. Mr. Templeton has served as the President and Chief Operating Officer of Global Vet, a veterinary reference laboratory, since 2006 and the Chief Operating Officer of Catachem Inc., a manufacturer of human and veterinary clinical chemistry reagents, since July 2010. Mr. Templeton has also served as a business development consultant for Advy Chemical, a manufacturer of raw materials for use in the in vitro diagnostics industry, since 2005. Prior to that time, Mr. Templeton co-founded, and from 1983 until 2003 served as the Chief Executive Officer of, Diagnostic Chemicals Limited USA, a developer and manufacturer of diagnostic reagents, test kits and point of care diagnostic devices which was eventually acquired by Genzyme Corporation, the company with which Mr. Templeton began his career. The Board of Directors believes that Mr. Templeton s appointment to the Board of Directors further strengthens its composition and that Mr. Templeton provides constructive insight to the Board of Directors as a result of his extensive background in the life sciences and diagnostics industries. °Item 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION °Item 11 will be provided by incorporating the information required under such item by reference to the registrant s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or, alternatively, by amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K under cover of Form 10-K/A no later than the end of such 120-day period. °Item 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS °Item 12 will be provided by incorporating the information required under such item by reference to the registrant s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or, alternatively, by amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K under cover of Form 10-K/A no later than the end of such 120-day period. 70 TABLE OF CONTENTS °Item 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE °Item 13 will be provided by incorporating the information required under such item by reference to the registrant s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or, alternatively, by amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K under cover of Form 10-K/A no later than the end of such 120-day period. °Item 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES °Item 14 will be provided by incorporating the information required under such item by reference to the registrant s Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, or, alternatively, by amendment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K under cover of Form 10-K/A no later than the end of such 120-day period. 71 TABLE OF CONTENTS PART IV °Item 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES (a) DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K: (1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following consolidated financial statements of us and our subsidiaries are included in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K: Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 40 Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 41 Consolidated Statements of Operations and Comprehensive Loss for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 42 Consolidated Statements of Shareholders Equity for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 43 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 44 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 45 (2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES All financial statement schedules have been omitted because the information is either not applicable or not required or because the information is included in our Consolidated Financial Statements or the related Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 72 TABLE OF CONTENTS (3) EXHIBITS The following exhibits are either filed as a part of or furnished with this Annual Report on Form 10-K or are incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K by reference to documents previously filed as indicated below: Exhibit Number Description Method of Filing 3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation Incorporated by reference to our Schedule 14A filed on June 25, 2002. 3.2 Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation Incorporated by reference to Appendix B of our Schedule 14A filed on April 18, 2011. 3.3 Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation Incorporated by reference to Appendix A of our Schedule 14A filed on May 24, 2012. 3.4 Certificate of Amendment to the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation Incorporated by reference to Appendix A of our Schedule 14A filed on August 22, 2013. 3.5 Amended and Restated Bylaws, as Amended Incorporated by reference to our Form 10-K filed on March 31, 2008. 4.1 Specimen Common Stock Certificate Incorporated by reference to our Form 10-Q filed on August 13, 2012. 4.2 Form of Warrant to Purchase Shares of Common Stock Incorporated by reference to our Form 8-K filed on April 8, 2011. 10.1 Form of Indemnification Agreement between IVAX Diagnostics, Inc. (n/k/a ERBA Diagnostics, Inc.) and each of its directors Incorporated by reference to our Form 10-K filed on March 31, 2003. 10.2 Use of Name License Agreement, effective as of June 15, 2012, between ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. (f/k/a IVAX Diagnostics, Inc.) and ERBA Diagnostics Mannheim GmbH Incorporated by reference to our Form 8-K filed on June 20, 2012. 10.3 Stock Purchase Agreement, dated April 8, 2011, by and between IVAX Diagnostics, Inc. (n/k/a ERBA Diagnostics, Inc.) and ERBA Diagnostics Mannheim GmbH Incorporated by reference to our Form 8-K filed on April 8, 2011. 10.4 Amendment to Stock Purchase Agreement, dated December 29, 2011, by and between IVAX Diagnostics, Inc. (n/k/a ERBA Diagnostics, Inc.) and ERBA Diagnostics Mannheim GmbH Incorporated by reference to our Form 8-K filed on December 29, 2011. 10.5 Second Amendment to Stock Purchase Agreement, dated October 3, 2012, by and between IVAX Diagnostics, Inc. (n/k/a ERBA Diagnostics, Inc.) and ERBA Diagnostics Mannheim GmbH Incorporated by reference to our Form 8-K filed on October 5, 2012. 10.6 Stock Purchase Agreement, dated October 3, 2012, by and between Escalon Medical Corp., Drew Scientific, Inc., and ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. Incorporated by reference to our Form 8-K filed on October 5, 2012. 10.7 Business Loan Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2013, by and between ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. and Citibank, N.A. Incorporated by reference to our Form 8-K filed on March 7, 2013. 73 TABLE OF CONTENTS Exhibit Number Description Method of Filing 10.8 Form of Promissory Note, executed on March 1, 2013, made by ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. in favor of Citibank, N.A. Incorporated by reference to our Form 8-K filed on March 7, 2013. 10.9 Form of Commercial Security Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2013, made by each of ERBA Diagnostics, Inc., Diamedix Corporation, ImmunoVision, Inc., and Drew Scientific, Inc., in favor of Citibank, N.A. Incorporated by reference to our Form 8-K filed on March 7, 2013. 10.10 Form of Commercial Guaranty Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2013, made by each of Diamedix Corporation, ImmunoVision, Inc., and Drew Scientific, Inc., in favor of Citibank, N.A. Incorporated by reference to our Form 8-K filed on March 7, 2013. 10.11 1999 Performance Equity Plan Incorporated by reference to our Form SB-2 filed on October 6, 1999. 10.12 2009 Equity Incentive Plan Incorporated by reference to our Schedule 14A filed on May 8, 2009. 10.13 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (Employee) Incorporated by reference to our Form 8-K filed on June 16, 2009. 10.14 Form of Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement (Independent Director) Incorporated by reference to our Form 10-K filed on March 30, 2011. 21.1 Subsidiaries of ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. Filed herewith. 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Mayer Hoffman McCann, P.C. Filed herewith. 31.1 Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Filed herewith. 31.2 Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Filed herewith. 32.1 Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 * 32.2 Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 * 101.INS XBRL Instance Document Filed herewith. 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document Filed herewith. 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document Filed herewith. 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Linkbase Document Filed herewith. 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document Filed herewith. 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document Filed herewith. * Pursuant to Item 601(b)(32) of Regulation S-K, this exhibit is furnished, rather than filed, with this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 74 TABLE OF CONTENTS SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. ERBA DIAGNOSTICS, INC. Dated: April 14, 2014 By: /s/ Sanjiv Suri Sanjiv Suri, Interim Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. Name Capacity Date /s/ Suresh Vazirani Suresh Vazirani Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors April 14, 2014 /s/ Sanjiv Suri Sanjiv Suri Interim Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive Officer) April 14, 2014 /s/ Prakash Patel Prakash Patel Assistant Controller (Principal Financial Officer) (Principal Accounting Officer) April 14, 2014 /s/ Kishore Dudani Kishore Dudani Director April 14, 2014 /s/ Philippe Gadal, Pharm.D. Philippe Gadal, Pharm.D. Director April 14, 2014 /s/ Gerald E. Gallwas Gerald E. Gallwas Director April 14, 2014 /s/ John B. Harley, M.D., Ph.D. John B. Harley, M.D., Ph.D. Director April 14, 2014 /s/ David M. Templeton David M. Templeton Director April 14, 2014 75 TABLE OF CONTENTS EXHIBIT INDEX Exhibit Number Description 21.1 Subsidiaries of ERBA Diagnostics, Inc. 23.1 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Mayer Hoffman McCann, P.C. 31.1 Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 31.2 Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.1 Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 32.2 Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 101.INS XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 101.CAL XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document 101.LAB XBRL Taxonomy Extension Labels Linkbase Document 101.PRE XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document 101.DEF XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document 76 
