 Table of Contents U. S. SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549 FORM 10 K For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2012 TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Commission file number 000-29599 PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) Connecticut 06-1559137 (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) (IRS Employer Identification Number) 900 Bedford Street Stamford, Connecticut 06901 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (203) 324-7500 Securities registered under Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act: None Securities registered under Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act: Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share Indicate by check mark if the registrant in a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act of 1933. Yes No Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 of 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Yes No Check whether the registrant (1) filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the past 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes No Check if disclosure of delinquent filers in response to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained in this form, and no disclosure will be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes No Check whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer or a non-accelerated filer in Rule 12(b) of the Exchange Act. Large accelerated filer Accelerated filer Non-accelerated filer Smaller reporting company Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12B-2 of the Act). Yes No Aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2012 based on the last sale price as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market: $7,209,206. Number of shares of the registrant s Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, outstanding as of February 28, 2013: 38,480,114. Documents Incorporated by Reference Proxy Statement for 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. (A definitive proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year covered by this Form 10-K.) Incorporated into Part III of this Form 10-K. Table of Contents Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. 2012 Form 10-K Annual Report TABLE OF CONTENTS Part I °Item 1. Business 2 °Item 1A. Risk Factors 13 °Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 23 °Item 2. Properties 23 °Item 3. Legal Proceedings 23 Part II °Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 24 °Item 6. Selected Financial Data 27 °Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation 28 °Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 54 °Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 57 °Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 59 °Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 59 °Item 9B. Other Information 60 Part III °Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 63 °Item 11. Executive Compensation 63 °Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters 63 °Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 63 °Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services 63 Part IV °Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 64 Table of Contents Safe Harbor Statement Under Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 Certain statements contained in Bancorp s public reports, including this report, and in particular in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation, may be forward looking and subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties. These factors include, but are not limited to, (1) changes in prevailing interest rates which would affect the interest earned on Bancorp s interest earning assets and the interest paid on its interest bearing liabilities, (2) the timing of repricing of Bancorp s interest earning assets and interest bearing liabilities, (3) the effect of changes in governmental monetary policy, (4) the effect of changes in regulations applicable to Bancorp and the Bank and the conduct of its business, (5) changes in competition among financial service companies, including possible further encroachment of non-banks on services traditionally provided by banks, (6) the ability of competitors that are larger than Bancorp to provide products and services which it is impracticable for Bancorp to provide, (7) the state of the economy and real estate values in Bancorp s market areas, and the consequent affect on the quality of Bancorp s loans, (8) recent governmental initiatives are expected to have a profound effect on the financial services industry and could dramatically change the competitive environment of the Company; (9) other legislative or regulatory changes, including those related to residential mortgages, changes in accounting standards, and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) premiums may adversely affect the Company; (10) the state of the economy in the greater New York metropolitan area and its particular effect on the Company s customers, vendors and communities and other such factors, including risk factors, as may be described in Bancorp s other filings with the SEC. Although Bancorp believes that it offers the loan and deposit products and has the resources needed for continued success, future revenues and interest spreads and yields cannot be reliably predicted. These trends may cause Bancorp to adjust its operations in the future. Because of the foregoing and other factors, recent trends should not be considered reliable indicators of future financial results or stock prices. 1 Table of Contents PART I °Item 1. Business General Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. ( Bancorp or Company ), a Connecticut corporation, was organized in 1999 for the purpose of becoming a one-bank holding company (the Reorganization ) for Patriot National Bank, a national banking association headquartered in Stamford, Fairfield County, Connecticut (the Bank ). Following receipt of regulatory and shareholder approvals, the Reorganization became effective as of the opening of business on December 1, 1999. Upon consummation of the Reorganization, each outstanding share of Common Stock, par value $2.00 per share, of the Bank ( Bank Common Stock ), was converted into the right to receive one share of Common Stock, par value $2.00 per share, of Bancorp ( Bancorp Common Stock ), and each outstanding option or warrant to purchase Bank Common Stock became an option or warrant to purchase an equal number of shares of Bancorp Common Stock. The Bank was granted preliminary approval by the Comptroller of the Currency (the OCC ) on March 5, 1993. It received its charter and commenced operations as a national bank on August 31, 1994. The Bank currently has nine branch offices in Connecticut. The Bank has a purchase and assumption agreement to sell the Southport, Connecticut branch with a targeted closing date in the second quarter of 2013. The Bank also expanded into New York State on November 17, 2006 through the purchase of a small branch office and related deposits in New York City and the subsequent opening of branch offices in Bedford and Scarsdale, both located in Westchester County, New York. In June 2012, the Bank closed the New York City branch. On March 11, 2003, Bancorp formed Patriot National Statutory Trust I (the Trust ) for the sole purpose of issuing trust preferred securities and investing the proceeds in subordinated debentures issued by Bancorp. Bancorp primarily invested the funds from the issuance of the debt in the Bank. The Bank in turn used the proceeds to fund general operations. On April 1, 2008, the Bank acquired a 20% interest in a de novo insurance agency. The impact on the Bank s operations in 2010, 2011 and 2012 has been minimal. On October 15, 2010, pursuant to a Securities Purchase Agreement (the Securities Purchase Agreement ), the Company issued and sold to PNBK Holdings LLC ( Holdings ), an investment limited liability company controlled by Michael Carrazza, 33,600,000 shares of its common stock at a purchase price of $1.50 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $50,400,000. The shares sold to Holdings represented 87.6% of the Company s then issued and outstanding common stock. The par value of the common stock was changed to $0.01 per share. Also in connection with that sale, certain directors and officers of both the Company and the Bank resigned and were replaced with nominees of Holdings and Michael Carrazza became Chairman of the Board of the Company. 2 Table of Contents As of the date hereof, the only business of Bancorp is its ownership of all of the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Bank and the Trust. Except as specifically noted otherwise herein, the balance of the description of Bancorp s business is a description of the Bank s business. On February 26, 2013, the Company announced the appointment of Kenneth T. Neilson as President and Chief Executive Officer of both the Company and the Bank effective March 18, 2013, pending regulatory approval. This is following the departure of Christopher Maher, who is resigning as President, CEO and director for personal reasons. Mr. Neilson has served as a director of Patriot since 2010. He is the retired President, Chairman and CEO of Hudson United Bank and Hudson United Bancorp where he served for 23 years. Commercial Banking The Bank conducts business at its main office located at 900 Bedford Street in Stamford, Connecticut and at other Connecticut branch offices located in Darien, Fairfield, Greenwich, Milford, Norwalk, Southport, Trumbull, and Westport. In New York State, the Bank conducts business at branch offices located in: Bedford and Scarsdale. The Bank also operates a loan origination office at 1177 Summer Street in Stamford, Connecticut. The Bank offers a broad range of consumer and commercial banking services with an emphasis on serving the needs of individuals, small and medium-sized businesses and professionals. The Bank offers consumer and commercial deposit accounts that include: checking accounts, interest-bearing NOW accounts, insured money market accounts, time certificates of deposit, savings accounts, IRAs (Individual Retirement Accounts) and HSAs (Health Savings Accounts). Other services include internet banking, bill paying, remote deposit capture, debit cards, money orders, traveler s checks and ATMs. The Bank is a member of CDARS (Certificates of Deposit Account Registry Service) whereby customers can obtain complete FDIC insurance coverage by placing large deposits into smaller-denomination CDs in multiple institutions. The single bank FDIC limits have been permanently increased to $250,000 per eligible account. In addition, the Bank may in the future offer other financial services. The Bank offers commercial loans to small and medium-sized businesses including secured and unsecured loans to service companies, manufacturers, restaurants, wholesalers, retailers and professionals doing business in the region. Other personal loans include lines of credit, installment loans, overdraft protection and credit cards. Real estate loans made to individuals include home mortgages, home improvement loans, bridge loans and home equity loans and lines of credit. Other loans offered include commercial real estate loans to area businesses. In addition to offering residential real estate mortgage loans for its own portfolio, the Bank also solicits and processes mortgage loan applications from consumers on behalf of permanent investors and originates loans for sale to generate fee income. Competition The Bank competes with a variety of financial institutions in its market area. Many have greater financial resources and capitalization, which gives them higher legal lending limits as well as the ability to conduct larger advertising campaigns to attract business. Generally, the larger institutions offer additional services such as trust and international banking which the Bank is not equipped to offer directly. When the need arises, arrangements are made with correspondent institutions to provide such services. In the future, if the Bank desires to offer trust services, prior approval of the OCC will be required. To attract business in this competitive environment, the Bank relies on local promotional activities and personal contact by officers, directors and shareholders and on its ability to distinguish itself by offering personalized services. 3 Table of Contents The customer base of the Bank generally is meant to be diversified so that there is not a concentration of either loans or deposits within a single industry, a group of industries, a single person or groups of people. The Bank is not dependent on one or a few major customers for either its deposit or lending activities, the loss of any one of which would have a material adverse effect on the business of the Bank. Residents and businesses in Stamford, Greenwich, Norwalk, Darien, Southport, Fairfield, Trumbull, Westport, and Milford Connecticut provide the majority of the Bank s deposits. The Bank has expanded its footprint by establishing branch offices in the Westchester County, New York towns of Bedford and Scarsdale. The Bank has focused its attention on serving the segments of its market area historically served by community banks. The Bank competes in its market by providing a high level of personalized and responsive banking service for which the Bank believes there is a need. The Bank s loan customers extend beyond the towns and cities in which the Bank has branch offices, including nearby towns in Fairfield and New Haven Counties in Connecticut, and Westchester County, New York City and Long Island in New York, although the Bank s loan business is not necessarily limited to these areas. The Bank s plans for future lending contemplate the diversification of the portfolio away from its historical emphasis on construction lending. While the Bank does not currently hold or intend to attract significant deposit or loan business from major corporations with headquarters in the its market area, the Bank believes that the service industries, professionals and related businesses which have been attracted to this area, as well as the individuals that reside in this area, represent current and potential customers of the Bank. In the normal course of business and subject to applicable government regulations, the Bank invests a portion of its assets in investment securities, which may include certain debt and equity securities, including government securities. An objective of the Bank s investment policy is to maintain a balance of high quality diversified investments to minimize risk while limiting its exposure to interest rate movements and credit risk, as well as maintaining adequate levels of liquidity. The Bank s investment portfolio is currently comprised primarily of government agency issues. The Bank s employees perform most routine day-to-day banking transactions at the Bank. The Bank has entered into a number of arrangements with third parties for banking services such as correspondent banking, check clearing, data processing services, credit card processing and armored car carrier service. The cities of Stamford and Norwalk and the towns of Greenwich, Darien, Southport, Milford, Fairfield, Trumbull, and Westport, CT are presently served by over 253 branches of commercial and savings banks along with 28 in the New York towns of Bedford and Scarsdale. Most of these branches are offices of banks, which have headquarters outside of the states or areas served by the Bank or are subsidiaries of bank or financial holding companies whose headquarters are outside of the areas served by the Bank. In addition to banks with branches in the same areas as the Bank, there are numerous banks and financial institutions serving the communities surrounding these areas, which also draw customers from the cities and towns mentioned above and pose significant competition to the Bank for deposits and loans. Many of those banks and financial institutions are well established and well capitalized. 4 Table of Contents In recent years, intense market demands, economic pressures and significant legislative and regulatory actions have eroded banking industry classifications which were once clearly defined and have increased competition among banks, as well as other financial institutions including non-bank competitors. This increase in competition has caused banks and other financial service institutions to diversify their services and become more cost effective. The impact on Bancorp of federal legislation authorizing increased services by financial holding companies and interstate branching of banks has also resulted in increased competition. These events have resulted in increasing homogeneity in the financial services offered by banks and other financial institutions. The impact on banks and other financial institutions of these market dynamics and legislative and regulatory changes has been increased customer awareness of product and service differences among competitors and increased merger activity. Supervision and Regulation As a bank holding company, Bancorp s operations are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Board (the Federal Reserve Board ). The Federal Reserve Board has established capital adequacy guidelines for bank holding companies that are similar to the OCC s capital guidelines applicable to the Bank. The Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the BHC Act ), limits the types of companies that a bank holding company may acquire or organize and the activities in which it or they may engage. In general, bank holding companies and their subsidiaries are only permitted to engage in, or acquire direct control of, any company engaged in banking or in a business so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. Federal legislation enacted in 1999 authorizes certain entities to register as financial holding companies. Registered financial holding companies are permitted to engage in businesses, including securities and investment banking businesses, which are prohibited to bank holding companies. The creation of financial holding companies to date has had no significant impact on Bancorp. Under the BHC Act, Bancorp is required to file annually with the Federal Reserve Board a report of its operations. Bancorp, the Bank and any other subsidiaries are subject to examination by the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, Bancorp will be required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board to acquire, with certain exceptions, more than 5% of the outstanding voting stock of any bank or bank holding company, to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of a bank or to merge or consolidate with another bank holding company. Moreover, Bancorp, the Bank and any other subsidiaries are prohibited from engaging in certain tying arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or provision of any property or services. The Bank is also subject to certain restrictions imposed by the Federal Reserve Act on issuing any extension of credit to Bancorp or any of its subsidiaries or making any investments in the stock or other securities thereof and on the taking of such stock or securities as collateral for loans to any borrower. If Bancorp wants to engage in businesses permitted to financial holding companies but not to bank holding companies, it would need to register with the Federal Reserve Board as a financial holding company. 5 Table of Contents The Federal Reserve Board has issued a policy statement on the payment of cash dividends by bank holding companies, which expresses its view that a bank holding company should pay cash dividends only to the extent that the bank holding company s net income for the past year is sufficient to cover both the cash dividend and a rate of earnings retention that is consistent with the bank holding company s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The Federal Reserve Board has also indicated that it would be inappropriate for a company experiencing serious financial problems to borrow funds to pay dividends. Furthermore, under the prompt corrective action regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve Board pursuant to applicable law, the Federal Reserve Board may prohibit a bank holding company from paying any dividends if its bank subsidiary is classified as undercapitalized. A bank holding company is required to give the Federal Reserve Board prior written notice of any purchase or redemption of its outstanding equity securities if the gross consideration for the purchase or redemption, when combined with the net consideration paid for all such purchases or redemptions during the preceding 12 months, is equal to 10% or more of its consolidated retained earnings. The Federal Reserve Board may disapprove such a purchase or redemption if it determines that the proposal would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice or would violate any law, regulation, Federal Reserve Board order, or any condition imposed by, or written agreement with, the Federal Reserve Board. The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 ( Riegle-Neal Act ), was enacted to ease restrictions on interstate banking. Effective September 29, 1995, the Riegle-Neal Act allows the Federal Reserve Board to approve an application of an adequately capitalized and adequately managed bank holding company to acquire control of, or acquire all or substantially all of the assets of, a bank located in a state other than such holding company s state, without regard to whether the transaction is prohibited by the laws of any state. The Federal Reserve Board may not approve the acquisition of a bank that has not been in existence for the minimum time period (not exceeding five years) specified by the statutory law of the host state. The Riegle-Neal Act also prohibits the Federal Reserve Board from approving an application if the applicant (and its depository institution affiliates) controls or would control more than 10% of the insured deposits in the United States or 30% or more of the deposits in the target bank s home state or in any state in which the target bank maintains a branch. The Riegle-Neal Act does not affect the authority of states to limit the percentage of total insured deposits in the state which may be held or controlled by a bank or bank holding company to the extent that such limitation does not discriminate against out-of-state banks or bank holding companies. Individual states may also waive the 30% statewide concentration limits contained in the Riegle-Neal Act. The Riegle-Neal Act also allows banks to establish branch offices in other than the bank s home state if the target state has opted in to interstate branching. Bancorp is subject to capital adequacy rules and guidelines issued by the OCC, the Federal Reserve Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ), and the Bank is subject to capital adequacy rules and guidelines issued by the OCC. These substantially identical rules and guidelines require Bancorp to maintain certain minimum ratios of capital to adjusted total assets and/or risk-weighted assets. Under the provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvements Act of 1991, the Federal regulatory agencies are required to implement and enforce these rules in a stringent manner. Bancorp is also subject to applicable provisions of Connecticut law insofar as they do not conflict with, or are not otherwise preempted by Federal banking law. 6 Table of Contents Bancorp is subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act ), and, in accordance with the Exchange Act, files periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC ). The Bank s operations are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the OCC and the FDIC. Federal and state banking regulations govern, among other things, the scope of the business of a bank, a bank holding company or a financial holding company, the investments a bank may make, deposit reserves a bank must maintain, the establishment of branches and the activities of a bank with respect to mergers and acquisitions. The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System and as such, is subject to applicable provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and regulations thereunder. The Bank is subject to the federal regulations promulgated pursuant to the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act to prevent banks from engaging in unsafe and unsound practices, as well as various other federal and state laws and consumer protection laws. The Bank is also subject to the comprehensive provisions of the National Bank Act. The OCC regulates the number and locations of the branch offices of a national bank. The OCC may only permit a national bank to maintain branches in locations and under the conditions imposed by state law upon state banks. At this time, applicable Connecticut banking laws do not impose any material restrictions on the establishment of branches by Connecticut banks throughout Connecticut. New York State law is similar; however, the Bank cannot establish a branch in a town with a population of less than 50,000 if another bank is headquartered in the town. The earnings and growth of Bancorp, the Bank and the banking industry are affected by the monetary and fiscal policies of the United States Government and its agencies, particularly the Federal Reserve Board. The Open Market Committee of the Federal Reserve Board implements national monetary policy to curb inflation and combat recession. The Federal Reserve Board uses its power to adjust interest rates in United States Government securities, the Discount Rate and deposit reserve retention rates. The actions of the Federal Reserve Board influence the growth of bank loans, investments and deposits. They also affect interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The nature and impact of any future changes in monetary policies cannot be predicted. In addition to other laws and regulations, Bancorp and the Bank are subject to the Community Reinvestment Act ( CRA ), which requires the federal bank regulatory agencies, when considering certain applications involving Bancorp or the Bank, to consider Bancorp s and the Bank s record of helping to meet the credit needs of its entire community, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA was originally enacted because of concern over unfair treatment of prospective borrowers by banks and over unwarranted geographic differences in lending patterns. Existing banks have sought to comply with CRA in various ways; some banks have made use of more flexible lending criteria for certain types of loans and borrowers (consistent with the requirement to conduct safe and sound operations), while other banks have increased their efforts to make loans to help meet identified credit needs within the consumer community, such as those for home mortgages, home improvements and small business loans. Compliance may also include participation in various government insured lending programs, such as Federal Housing Administration insured or Veterans Administration guaranteed mortgage loans, Small Business Administration loans, and participation in other types of lending programs such as high loan-to-value ratio conventional mortgage loans with private mortgage insurance. To date, the market area from which the Bank draws much of its business is in the towns and cities in which the Bank has branch offices, which are characterized by a very diverse ethnic, economic and racial cross-section of the population. As the Bank expands further, the market areas served by the Bank will continue to evolve. Bancorp and the Bank have not and will not adopt any policies or practices, which discourage credit applications from, or unlawfully discriminate against, individuals or segments of the communities served by the Bank. 7 Table of Contents On October 26, 2001, the United and Strengthening America by Providing Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001, or the USA Patriot Act, was enacted to further strengthen domestic security following the September 11, 2001 attacks. This Act amends various federal banking laws, particularly the Bank Secrecy Act, with the intent to curtail money laundering and other activities that might be undertaken to finance terrorist actions. The Act also requires that financial institutions in the United States enhance already established anti-money laundering policies, procedures and audit functions and ensure that controls are reasonably designed to detect instances of money laundering through certain correspondent or private banking accounts. Verification of customer identification, maintenance of said verification records and cross checking names of new customers against government lists of known or suspected terrorists is also required. The Patriot Act was reauthorized and modified with the enactment of The USA Patriot Act Improvement and Reauthorization Act of 2005. On July 20, 2002, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 was enacted, the primary purpose of which is to protect investors through improved corporate governance and responsibilities of, and disclosures by, public companies. The Act contains provisions for the limitations of services that external auditors may provide as well as requirements for the credentials of Audit Committee members. In addition, the principal executive and principal financial officers are required to certify in quarterly and annual reports that they have reviewed the report; and based on the officers knowledge, the reports accurately present the financial condition and results of operations of the company and contain no untrue statement or omission of material fact. The officers also certify their responsibility for establishing and maintaining a system of internal controls, which insure that all material information is made known to the officers; this certification also includes the evaluation of the effectiveness of disclosure controls and procedures and their impact upon financial reporting. Section 404 of the Act, entitled Management Assessment of Internal Controls, requires that each annual report include an internal control report which states that it is the responsibility of management for establishing and maintaining an adequate internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting, as well as an assessment by management of the effectiveness of the internal control structure and procedures for financial reporting. This section further requires that the external auditors attest to, and report on, the Company s internal controls over financial reporting. Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 On October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act ( EESA ) was signed into law, which includes the Troubled Asset Relief Program ( TARP ). The legislation was in response to the financial crises affecting the banking system and financial markets. The TARP gave the United States Department of the Treasury (the Treasury ) authority to deploy up to $700 billion into the financial system with an objective of improving liquidity in the capital markets. This was initially done by infusing billions of dollars into financial and insurance institutions as well as U.S. automakers. Since 2008, the U.S. Department of the Treasury has established several programs under the TARP, including the Financial Stability Program, to further stabilize the financial system, restore the flow of credit to consumers and businesses and tackle the foreclosure crisis to keep millions of Americans in their homes. Since this program began, many banks, large and small have accessed the program. However, due to constraints attendant to participation, many banks have repaid capital received from the government. The Bank did not participate in the TARP program, which is now closed to new entrants. 8 Table of Contents Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program On November 21, 2008, the FDIC adopted the Final Rule implementing the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ( TLGP ) inaugurated October 14, 2008. The TLGP consists of two basic components: (1) the Debt Guarantee Program which guarantees newly issued senior unsecured debt of banks, thrifts, and certain holding companies and (2) the Transaction Account Guarantee Program which guarantees certain non-interest bearing deposit transaction accounts, such as business payroll accounts, regardless of dollar amount. The purpose of the TLGP was to provide an initiative to counter the system-wide crisis in the nation s financial sector by promoting financial stability by preserving confidence in the banking system and encouraging liquidity in order to ease lending to creditworthy businesses and consumers. Patriot National Bank participated in the FDIC Transaction Account Guarantee Program which guaranteed full coverage on certain noninterest-bearing deposit transaction accounts, such as business accounts, until the expiration date of the program on December 31, 2010. Effective December 31, 2010 through December 31, 2012, the Board of Directors of the FDIC implemented a new final rule under section 343 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that provides temporary unlimited coverage to depositors with noninterest-bearing transaction accounts, in addition to, and separate from, the coverage of at least $250,000 available under the FDIC s general rules. The term noninterest-bearing transaction account includes a traditional checking account or demand deposit account on which the Bank pays no interest. It also includes Interest on Lawyer Trust Accounts ( IOLTAs ). It does not include other accounts, such as traditional checking or demand deposit accounts that may earn interest, NOW accounts or money market deposit accounts. The extended program was not renewed on December 31, 2012. Bancorp did not participate in the Debt Guarantee portion of the TLGP. Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009 The Helping Families Save Their Homes Act of 2009 became effective May 20, 2009. This act was a step towards stabilizing and reforming the United States financial and housing markets by helping American homeowners and increasing the flow of credit. It expands the reach of the Making Home Affordable Program (a TARP initiative) with an emphasis on reducing foreclosures. The act also contains provisions to help restore and support the flow of credit by increasing the borrowing authority of the FDIC and the National Credit Union Administration as well as extending the temporary increase in deposit insurance. The increase in deposit insurance may provide additional confidence to depositors and allow depository institutions to better maintain this source of funding. 9 Table of Contents Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development ( HUD ) issued a final rule effective January 1, 2010 that implements significant changes to the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act ( RESPA ). The new rules require a standard form of Good Faith Estimate to disclose key terms and closing costs, including items such as the loan term, fixed or adjustable interest rate, prepayment penalty, total closing cost and cost of homeowners insurance. Additionally, changes to the settlement statement are also required and will allow borrowers to compare their final closing costs and loan terms against their good faith estimate. There are also limitations on third-party costs and a 30 day window from the date of closing to correct any errors or violations and reimburse the borrower for any overcharges. Regulation E, Electronic Fund Transfers The Board of Governors of the FRB amended Regulation E, Electronic Fund Transfers. The final rules, announced November 12, 2009, prohibit affected financial institutions from charging consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine ( ATM ) and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer consents, or opts in, to the overdraft service for those types of transactions. The mandatory compliance date was July 1, 2010. Bancorp does not anticipate that compliance with applicable federal and state banking laws will have a material adverse effect on its business or the business of the Bank. Neither Bancorp nor the Bank has any material patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises, concessions and royalty agreements or labor contracts, other than the charter granted to the Bank by the OCC. Recent Legislative Developments The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Act ) was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Act is a significant piece of legislation that has had a major impact on the financial services industry, including the organization, financial condition and operations of banks and bank holding companies. Management is currently evaluating the impact of the Act; however, uncertainty remains as to its operational impact, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company s business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of the provisions of the Act are aimed at financial institutions that are significantly larger than the Company and the Bank. Notwithstanding this, there are many other provisions that the Company and the Bank are subject to and will have to comply with, including any new rules applicable to the Company and the Bank promulgated by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, a new regulatory body dedicated to consumer protection. As rules and regulations are promulgated by the agencies responsible for implementing and enforcing the Act, the Company and the Bank will have to address each to ensure compliance with applicable provisions of the Act and compliance costs are expected to increase. The Dodd-Frank Act broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Under rules issued by the FDIC in February 2011, the base for insurance assessments changed from domestic deposits to consolidated assets less tangible equity. Assessment rates are calculated using formulas that take into account the risks of the institution being assessed. The rule was effective beginning April 1, 2011. This did not have a material impact on the Company. 10 Table of Contents On June 28, 2011, the Federal Reserve Board approved a final debit-card interchange rule. This primarily impacts larger banks and should not have a material impact on the Company. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on the Company. The financial reform legislation and any implementing rules that are ultimately issued could have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment, and our ability to conduct business. Management will have to apply resources to ensure compliance with all applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules, which may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings. Recent Agreement with Regulators In February 2009 the Bank entered into a formal written agreement (the Agreement ) with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Under the terms of the Agreement, the Bank has appointed a Compliance Committee of outside directors and the Chief Executive Officer. The Committee must report quarterly to the Board of Directors and to the OCC on the Bank s progress in complying with the Agreement. The Agreement requires the Bank to review, adopt and implement a number of policies and programs related to credit and operational issues. The Agreement further provides limitations on the acceptance of certain brokered deposits and the extension of credit to borrowers whose loans are criticized. The Bank may pay dividends during the term of the Agreement only with prior written permission from the OCC. The Agreement also requires that the Bank develop and implement a three-year capital plan. The Bank has taken or put into process all of the steps required by the Agreement, and does not anticipate that the restrictions included within the Agreement will impair its current business plan. In June 2010 the company entered into a formal written agreement (the Reserve Bank Agreement ) with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the Reserve Bank ). Under the terms of the Reserve Bank Agreement, the Board of Directors of the Company are required to take appropriate steps to fully utilize the Company s financial and managerial resources to serve as a source of strength to the Bank including taking steps to insure that the Bank complies with the Agreement with the OCC. The Reserve Bank Agreement requires the Company to submit, adopt and implement a capital plan that is acceptable to the Reserve Bank. The Company must also report to the Reserve Bank quarterly on the Company s progress in complying with the Reserve Bank Agreement. The Agreement further provides for certain restrictions on the payment or receipt of dividends, distributions of interest or principal on subordinate debentures or trust preferred securities and the Company s ability to incur debt or to purchase or redeem its stock without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank. The Company has taken or put into process all of the steps required by the Reserve Bank Agreement, and does not anticipate that the restrictions included within the Reserve Bank Agreement will impair its current business plan. 11 Table of Contents Available Information Our website address is http://www.pnbdirectonline.com ; however, information found on, or that can be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K. Bancorp makes available free of charge on our website (under the links entitled For Investors , then SEC filings and then Documents ), our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements on Schedule 14A, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as practicable after we electronically file such reports with or furnish it to the SEC. Because Bancorp is an electronic filer, such reports are filed with the SEC and are also available on their website ( http://www.sec.gov ). The public may also read and copy any materials filed with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room, 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Information about the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling 1-800-SEC-0330. Employees As of December 31, 2012, Bancorp had 114 full-time employees and 4 part-time employees. None of the employees of Bancorp are covered by a collective bargaining agreement. 12 Table of Contents °Item 1A. Risk Factors The risks involved in Bancorp s commercial real estate loan portfolio are material. Bancorp s commercial real estate loan portfolio constitutes a material portion of the Bank s assets and generally has more risk than residential mortgage loans. Commercial real estate loans often involve larger loan balances concentrated with single borrowers or groups of related borrowers as compared to single-family residential loans. Because the repayment of commercial real estate loans depends on the successful management and operation of the borrower s properties or related businesses, repayments of such loans can be affected by adverse conditions in the real estate market or local economy as have been experienced in Bancorp s market area. The downturn in the real estate market within Bancorp s market area has, and may continue to, adversely impact the value of properties securing these loans. Real estate lending in Bancorp s core market involves risks related to a decline in value of commercial and residential real estate. The market value of real estate can fluctuate significantly in a relatively short period of time as a result of market conditions in the geographic area in which the real estate is located. A significant portion of Bancorp s total loan portfolio is secured by real estate located in Fairfield County, Connecticut and New York City, Long Island and Westchester County, New York, areas historically of high affluence that have been materially impacted by the financial troubles experienced by large financial service companies on Wall Street and other companies in recent years. Credit markets have become tight and underwriting standards more stringent, and the inability of purchasers of real estate to obtain financing will continue to impact the real estate market. Therefore, these loans may be subject to changes in grade, classification, accrual status, foreclosure, or loss which could have an effect on the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Bancorp s business is subject to various lending and other economic risks that could adversely impact Bancorp s results of operations and financial condition. Changes in economic conditions, particularly a continued economic slowdown in Fairfield County, Connecticut and the New York metropolitan area, could hurt Bancorp s financial performance. A further deterioration in economic conditions, in particular an economic slowdown within Fairfield County, Connecticut and/or the New York metropolitan area, could result in the following consequences, any of which may hurt the business of Bancorp materially: loan delinquencies may increase; problem assets and foreclosures may increase; demand for the Bank s products and services may decline; and assets and collateral associated with the Bank s loans, especially real estate, may decline in value, thereby reducing a customer s borrowing power. During the years 2007 through 2009, the general economic conditions and specific business conditions in the United States, including Fairfield County, Connecticut and the New York metropolitan area, deteriorated, resulting in increases in loan delinquencies, problem assets and foreclosures and declines in the value and collateral associated with the Bank s loans. During 2010 through 2012, the economic climate improved marginally resulting in decreases in the Bank s non-performing assets. A prolonged period of economic recession or worsening of these economic conditions may have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. 13 Table of Contents Bancorp is Subject to a Formal Agreement with the OCC and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. The Bank is subject to a formal agreement with the OCC entered into in February 2009. The agreement provides for, among other things, the enhancement and implementation of certain programs to reduce the Bank s credit risk, commercial real estate loan concentration and the level of criticized assets, along with the augmentation of a profit plan and three-year capital program. The Bank does not anticipate that the restrictions within the agreement will impair its current business plan. However, failure to comply with the provisions of the agreement could result in more severe enforcement actions and further restrictions. In June 2010 the Company entered into a formal written agreement (the Reserve Bank Agreement ) with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the Reserve Bank ). Under the terms of the Reserve Bank Agreement, the Board of Directors of the Company are required to take appropriate steps to fully utilize the Company s financial and managerial resources to serve as a source of strength to the Bank including taking steps to insure that the Bank complies with the agreement with the OCC. The Reserve Bank Agreement requires the Company to submit, adopt and implement a capital plan that is acceptable to the Reserve Bank. The Company must also report to the Reserve Bank quarterly on the Company s progress in complying with the Reserve Bank Agreement. The Agreement further provides for certain restrictions on the payment or receipt of dividends, distributions of interest or principal on subordinate debentures or trust preferred securities and the Company s ability to incur debt or to purchase or redeem its stock without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank. The Company has taken or put into process all of the steps required by the Reserve Bank Agreement, and does not anticipate that the restrictions included within the Reserve Bank Agreement will impair its current business plan. Bancorp s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual losses. Like all financial institutions, the Bank maintains an allowance for loan losses to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The allowance for loan losses is based on an evaluation of the risks associated with the Bank s loans receivable as well as the Bank s prior loss experience. Deterioration in general economic conditions and unforeseen risks affecting customers will have an adverse effect on borrowers capacity to repay timely their obligations before risk grades could reflect those changing conditions. The previous adverse changes in economic and market conditions in the Bank s market areas increase the risk that the allowance will become inadequate if borrowers continue to experience economic and other conditions adverse to their incomes and businesses. Maintaining the adequacy of the Bank s allowance for loan losses may require that the Bank make significant and unanticipated increases in the provision for loan losses, which would materially affect the results of operations and capital adequacy. The amount of future losses is susceptible to changes in economic, operating and other conditions, including changes in interest rates that may be beyond the Bank s control and these losses may exceed current estimates. Although the current economic environment has improved, conditions remain uncertain which may result in additional risk of loan losses. 14 Table of Contents Federal regulatory agencies, as an integral part of their examination process, review the Bank s loans and assess the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. The regulatory agencies may require us to change classifications or grades on loans, increase the allowance for loan losses with additional provisions for loan losses and to recognize further loan charge-offs based upon their judgments, which may differ from ours. Any increase in the allowance for loan losses required by these regulatory agencies could have a negative effect on our results of operations and financial condition. While management believes that the allowance for loan losses is currently adequate to cover inherent losses, further loan deterioration could occur and therefore management cannot assure shareholders that there will not be a need to increase the allowance for loan losses or that the regulators will not require management to increase this allowance. Either of these occurrences could materially and adversely affect Bancorp s earnings and profitability. Bancorp is subject to certain risks with respect to liquidity. Liquidity refers to our ability to generate sufficient cash flows to support our operations and to fulfill our obligations, including commitments to originate loans, to repay our wholesale borrowings and other liabilities, and to satisfy the withdrawal of deposits by our customers. Our primary sources of liquidity are the deposits we acquire organically through our branch network, borrowed funds, primarily in the form of wholesale borrowings; the cash flows generated through the repayment of loans and securities; and the cash flows from the sale of loans and securities. In addition, and depending on current market conditions, we may have the ability to access the capital markets from time to time. Deposit flows, calls of investment securities and wholesale borrowings, and prepayments of loans and mortgage-related securities are strongly influenced by such external factors as the direction of interest rates, whether actual or perceived; local and national economic conditions; and competition for deposits and loans in the markets we serve. Furthermore, changes to the underwriting guidelines for wholesale borrowings or lending policies may limit or restrict our ability to borrow, and could therefore have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity. A decline in available funding could adversely impact our ability to originate loans, invest in securities, and meet our expenses, or to fulfill such obligations as repaying our borrowings or meeting deposit withdrawal demands. 15 Table of Contents Bancorp s business is subject to interest rate risk and variations in interest rates may negatively affect Bancorp s financial performance. Bancorp is unable to predict fluctuations of market interest rates, which are affected by many factors including: inflation, recession, a rise in unemployment, a tightening money supply, domestic and international disorder and instability in domestic and foreign financial markets. Changes in the interest rate environment may reduce Bancorp s profits. Bancorp realizes income from the differential or spread between the interest earned on loans, securities and other interest-earning assets, and interest paid on deposits, borrowings and other interest-bearing liabilities. Net interest spreads are affected by the difference between the maturities and repricing characteristics of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. In addition, an increase in the general level of interest rates may adversely affect the ability of some borrowers to pay the interest on and principal of their obligations. Like most financial institutions, Bancorp is affected by changes in interest rates, which are currently at record low levels, and by other economic factors beyond Bancorp s control. Although Bancorp has implemented strategies which are designed to reduce the potential effects of changes in interest rates on operations, these strategies may not always be successful. Accordingly, changes in levels of market interest rates could materially and adversely affect Bancorp s net interest spread, asset quality, levels of prepayments and cash flow as well as the market value of its securities portfolio and overall profitability. Mortgage banking activity is also affected by interest rate fluctuations. Generally, increases in interest rates often lead to decreases in home refinancing activity, thus reducing the number of mortgage loans that Bancorp originates. Bancorp s investment portfolio includes securities which are sensitive to interest rates and variations in interest rates may adversely impact Bancorp s profitability. Bancorp s security portfolio is classified as available-for-sale, and is comprised primarily of debt and mortgage-backed securities, which are insured or guaranteed by U.S. government agencies, and corporate bonds. These securities are sensitive to interest rate fluctuations. Unrealized gains or losses in the available-for-sale portfolio for securities are reported as a separate component of shareholders equity. As a result, future interest rate fluctuations may impact shareholders equity, causing material fluctuations from quarter to quarter. The inability to hold its securities until maturity, or until payments are received on mortgage-backed securities, or until market conditions are favorable for a sale, could adversely affect Bancorp s earnings and profitability. Bancorp is dependent on its management team and the loss of its senior executive officers or other key employees could impair its relationship with its customers and adversely affect its business and financial results. Bancorp s success is dependent upon the continued services and skills of its management team. The unexpected loss of services of one or more of these key personnel, without experienced and suitable replacements could have an adverse impact on Bancorp s business because of their skills, knowledge of Bancorp s market, years of industry experience and the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. 16 Table of Contents Bancorp s success also depends, in part, on its continued ability to attract and retain experienced commercial lenders and residential mortgage originators, as well as other management personnel. The loss of the services of several of such key personnel could adversely affect Bancorp s growth and prospects to the extent it is unable to quickly replace such personnel. Competition for commercial lenders and residential mortgage originators is strong within the commercial banking and mortgage banking industries, and Bancorp may not be successful in retaining or attracting personnel. A breach of information security could negatively affect Bancorp s earnings . Bancorp increasingly depends upon data processing, communications and information exchange on a variety of computing platforms and networks, and over the internet to conduct its business. Bancorp cannot be certain that all of its systems are entirely free from vulnerability to attack, despite safeguards it has instituted. In addition, Bancorp relies on the services of a variety of vendors to meet its data processing and communication needs. If information security is breached, information can be lost or misappropriated; this could result in financial loss or costs to Bancorp or damages to others. These costs or losses could materially exceed the amount of insurance coverage, if any, which would have an adverse effect on Bancorp s results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the Bank s reputation could be harmed, which also could materially affect Bancorp s financial condition and results of operations. We are subject to environmental liability risk associated with our lending activities. A significant portion of our loan portfolio is secured by real property. During the ordinary course of business, we may foreclose on, and take title to, properties securing certain loans. In doing so, there is a risk that hazardous or toxic substances could be found on these properties. If hazardous or toxic substances are found, we may be liable for remediation costs, as well as for personal injury and property damage. In addition, we own and operate certain properties that may be subject to similar environmental liability risks. Environmental laws may require us to incur substantial expense and may materially reduce the affected property's value or limit our ability to use or sell the affected property. In addition, future laws or more stringent interpretations or enforcement policies with respect to existing laws may increase our exposure to environmental liability. Although we have policies and procedures requiring the performance of an environmental site assessment before initiating any foreclosure action on real property, these assessments may not be sufficient to detect all potential environmental hazards. The remediation costs and any other financial liabilities associated with an environmental hazard could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Our business may be adversely impacted by acts of war or terrorism. Acts of war or terrorism could have a significant adverse impact on our ability to conduct our business. Such events could affect the ability of our borrowers to repay their loans, could impair the value of the collateral securing our loans, and could cause significant property damage, thus increasing our expenses and/or reducing our revenues. In addition, such events could affect the ability of our depositors to maintain their deposits with the Bank. Although we have established disaster recovery policies and procedures, the occurrence of any such event could have a material adverse effect on our business which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 17 Table of Contents We rely on the dividends we receive from our subsidiary . Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from the Bank, and all of the revenues Bancorp receives consist of dividends from the Bank. These dividends are the primary funding source for the interest and principal payments on our debt. Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount of dividends that a bank may pay to its parent company. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon the liquidation or reorganization of a subsidiary may be subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary's creditors. If the Bank is unable to pay dividends to Bancorp, we may not be able to pay our obligations. The inability to receive dividends from the Bank could therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, our financial condition, and our results of operations, as well as our ability to pay or increase the current level of cash dividends paid to our shareholders. Beginning in the second quarter of 2009, the Company began deferring interest payments on the subordinated debentures as permitted under the terms of the debentures. The deferral in the fourth quarter of 2012 represented the fifteenth consecutive quarter of deferral. The Company continues to accrue and charge interest to operations. The Company may only defer the payment of interest for 20 consecutive quarters, or through March 2014, and all accrued interest must be paid at the completion of the deferral period, June 2014. The price of our common stock may fluctuate. The market price of our common stock could be subject to significant fluctuations due to changes in sentiment in the market regarding our operations or business prospects. Among other factors, these risks may be affected by: operating results that vary from the expectations of our management or of securities analysts and investors; developments in our business or in the financial services sector generally; regulatory or legislative changes affecting our industry generally or our business and operations; operating and securities price performance of companies that investors consider to be comparable to us; changes in estimates or recommendations by securities analysts or rating agencies; announcements of strategic developments, acquisitions, dispositions, financings, and other material events by us or our competitors; and changes or volatility in global financial markets and economies, general market conditions, interest or foreign exchange rates, stock, commodity, credit, or asset valuations. 18 Table of Contents In addition, stock markets around the world have experienced significant price and trading volume volatility, with shares of financial services firms being adversely impacted, in particular. While the U.S. and other governments continue to take action to restore confidence in the financial markets and to promote job creation and economic growth, continued or further market and economic turmoil could occur in the near or long term, which could negatively affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and volatility in the price and trading volume of our common stock. Difficult market conditions have adversely affected Bancorp s industry. Bancorp is exposed to downturns in the U.S. economy, and particularly the local markets in which it operates in Connecticut and New York. Declines in the housing market with falling home prices and increasing foreclosures, unemployment and under-employment, have negatively impacted the credit performance of mortgage and construction loans and resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by financial institutions, including government-sponsored enterprises as well as major commercial and investment banks. These write-downs have caused many financial institutions to seek additional capital, to merge with larger and stronger institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Many lenders and institutional investors have reduced or ceased providing funding to borrowers, including other financial institutions. This market turmoil and the tightening of credit have led to an increased level of commercial and consumer delinquencies, lack of consumer confidence, increased market volatility and generally widespread reductions in business activity. The resulting economic pressure on consumers and lack of confidence in the financial markets has adversely affected Bancorp s business, financial condition and results of operations. A worsening of these conditions would likely exacerbate the adverse effects of these difficult market conditions on us and other financial institutions. In particular: Economic conditions may continue to affect market confidence levels and may cause adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in delinquencies, which could affect our charge-offs and provision for loan losses. The ability to assess the creditworthiness of the Bank s customers or to estimate the values of collateral for loans may be impaired if the models and approaches we use become less predictive of future behaviors, valuations, assumptions or estimates due to the unpredictable economic climate. Increasing consolidation of financial services companies as a result of current market conditions could have unexpected adverse effects upon our ability to compete effectively. We may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums, special assessments, or taxes that could adversely affect our earnings. Market developments have significantly impacted the insurance fund of the FDIC. As a result, we may be required to pay higher premiums or additional special assessments or taxes that could adversely affect our earnings. We are generally unable to control the amount of premiums that we are required to pay for FDIC insurance. If there are additional banks or financial institution failures, we may be required to pay even higher FDIC premiums than are currently assessed. These increases and any future increases or required prepayments in FDIC insurance premiums or taxes may materially adversely affect our results of operations. 19 Table of Contents We are subject to risks associated with taxation. The amount of income taxes we are required to pay on our earnings is based on federal and state legislation and regulations. We provide for current and deferred taxes in our financial statements, based on our results of operations, business activity, legal structure, interpretation of tax statutes, assessment of risk of adjustment upon audit, and application of financial accounting standards. We may take tax return filing positions for which the final determination of tax is uncertain. Our net income and earnings per share may be reduced if a federal, state, or local authority assesses additional taxes that have not been provided for in our consolidated financial statements. There can be no assurance that we will achieve our anticipated effective tax rate either due to a change in a tax law, a change in regulatory or judicial guidance, or an audit assessment which denies previously recognized tax benefits. Risks associated with changes in technology. Financial products and services have become increasingly technology-driven. Our ability to meet the needs of our customers competitively, and in a cost-efficient manner, is dependent on our ability to keep pace with technological advances and to invest in new technology as it becomes available. Many of our competitors have greater resources to invest in technology than we do and may be better equipped to market new technology-driven products and services. The ability to keep pace with technological change is important, and the failure to do so on our part could have a material adverse impact on our business and therefore on our financial condition and results of operations. Strong competition within Bancorp s market area may limit the growth and profitability of the Company. Competition in the banking and financial services industry is intense. The Fairfield County, Connecticut and the New York City metropolitan areas have a high concentration of financial institutions including large money center and regional banks, community banks and credit unions. Some of Bancorp s competitors offer products and services that the Bank currently does not offer, such as private banking and trust services. Many of these competitors have substantially greater resources and lending limits than Bancorp and may offer certain services that Bancorp does not or cannot provide. Price competition for loans and deposits might result in the Bank earning less on its loans and paying more for deposits, which reduces net interest income. Bancorp expects competition to increase in the future as a result of legislative, regulatory and technological changes. Bancorp s profitability depends upon its continued ability to successfully compete in its market area. 20 Table of Contents Government regulation may have an adverse effect on Bancorp s profitability and growth . Bancorp is subject to extensive regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency as the Bank s chartering authority, by the FDIC, as insurer of its deposits, and by the Federal Reserve Board as regulator of Bancorp. Changes in state and federal banking laws and regulations or in federal monetary policies could adversely affect the Bank s ability to maintain profitability and continue to grow and, in light of recent economic conditions, such changes are expected but cannot be predicted. For example, new legislation or regulation could limit the manner in which Bancorp may conduct its business, including the Bank s ability to obtain financing, attract deposits, make loans and achieve satisfactory interest spreads. The laws, regulations, interpretations and enforcement policies that apply to Bancorp have been subject to significant, and sometimes retroactively applied, changes in recent years, and are likely to change significantly in the future. Legislation proposing significant structural reforms to the financial services industry considered in the U.S. Congress has, among other things, created the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which gives broad authority to regulate financial service providers and financial products. In addition, the Federal Reserve Bank has passed guidance on incentive compensation at the banking organizations it regulates and the United States Department of the Treasury and the federal banking regulators have issued statements calling for higher capital and liquidity requirements for banking organizations. Complying with any new legislative or regulatory requirements, and any programs established there under by federal and state governments to address the current economic crisis, could have an adverse impact on our results of operations and our ability to fill positions with the most qualified candidates available. Changing regulation of corporate governance and public disclosure. Laws, regulations and standards relating to corporate governance and public disclosure, SEC regulations and NASDAQ rules, have added to the responsibilities that companies, such as Bancorp, have. These laws, regulations and standards are subject to varying interpretations, and as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as new guidance is provided by regulatory and governing bodies, which could make compliance more difficult and result in higher costs. Bancorp is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance and public disclosure. As a result, Bancorp s efforts to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance activities. Bancorp s reputation may be harmed if it does not continue to comply with these laws, regulations and standards. The earnings of financial institutions are significantly affected by general business and economic conditions . As a financial institution, Bancorp s operations and profitability are impacted by general business and economic conditions in the United States and abroad. These conditions include short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, money supply, political issues, legislative and regulatory changes and the strength of the U.S. economy and the local economies in which we operate, all of which are beyond Bancorp s control. In recent years, the banking world has experienced unprecedented upheaval, including the failure of some of the leading financial institutions in the world. Further deterioration in economic conditions could result in an increase in loan delinquencies and non-performing assets, decreases in loan collateral values and a decrease in demand for the Bank s products and services, among other things, any of which could have a material adverse impact on Bancorp s results of operations and financial condition and for which Bancorp cannot currently predict or implement plans to combat. 21 Table of Contents We are a controlled company within the meaning of the Nasdaq rules and, as a result, we qualify for, and rely on, exemptions from certain corporate governance requirements. PNBK Holdings LLC controls a majority of our voting common stock. As a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of Nasdaq corporate governance standards. Under the Nasdaq rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company is a controlled company and we utilize exemptions relating to certain Nasdaq corporate governance requirements, including: The requirement that we have a Nominating and Governance Committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; The requirement that we have a Compensation Committee that is composed entirely of independent directors; and The requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the Nominating and Governance and Compensation Committees. As a result of these exemptions, our Nominating and Governance Committee and Compensation Committee do not consist entirely of independent directors and we are not required to have an annual performance evaluation of the Nominating and Governance and Compensation Committees. Accordingly, a holder of our common stock will not have the same protections afforded to stockholders of companies that are subject to all of the Nasdaq corporate requirements. 22 Table of Contents °Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments None. °Item 2. Properties Patriot National Bancorp Inc. s corporate headquarters and main branch banking office is located at 900 Bedford Street in Stamford, Connecticut. The building is leased by the Bank, as are its ten other branch banking offices, one loan origination office and additional administrative and operational office space. The Bank also leases space at its main office for additional parking. Lease commencement dates for office locations range from April 2003 to July 2012 and lease expiration dates fall between March 2013 and June 2027. Most of the leases contain rent escalation provisions, as well as renewal options for one or more periods. The Bank has sublet and licensed excess space in two of its locations to an attorney and two independent companies. See also Item 12. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions. For additional information regarding the Bank s lease obligations, see Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. All leased properties are in good condition. °Item 3. Legal Proceedings Neither Bancorp nor the Bank has any pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to its business, to which Bancorp or the Bank is a party or any of its property is subject. 23 Table of Contents PART II °Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Shareholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities Market Information Bancorp Common Stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Market under the Symbol PNBK. On December 31, 2012, the last sale price for Bancorp Common Stock on the NASDAQ Global Market was $1.25. The following table sets forth the high and low sales price and dividends per share of Bancorp Common Stock for the last two fiscal years for each quarter as reported on the NASDAQ Global Market. 2012 2011 Cash Cash Sales Price Dividends Sales Price Dividends Quarter Ended High Low Declared High Low Declared March 31 $ 1.85 $ 1.78 $ $ 2.55 $ 2.01 $ June 30 1.61 1.54 2.34 1.91 September 30 1.60 1.48 2.19 1.80 December 31 1.25 1.05 2.00 1.62 Holders There were approximately 573 shareholders of record of Bancorp Common Stock as of December 31, 2012. This number does not reflect the number of persons or entities holding stock in nominee name through banks, brokerage firms or other nominees. Dividends Bancorp s ability to pay dividends is dependent on the Bank s ability to pay dividends to Bancorp. Pursuant to the February 9, 2009 Agreement between the Bank and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Bank can pay dividends to Bancorp only pursuant to a dividend policy requiring compliance with the Bank's OCC-approved capital program, in compliance with applicable law and with the prior written determination of no supervisory objection by the Assistant Deputy Comptroller. In addition to the Agreement, certain other restrictions exist regarding the ability of the Bank to transfer funds to Bancorp in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances. The approval of the Comptroller of the Currency is required to pay dividends in excess of the Bank s earnings retained in the current year plus retained net earnings for the preceding two years. As of December 31, 2012, the Bank had no retained earnings available for distribution to Bancorp as dividends. The Bank is also prohibited from paying dividends that would reduce its capital ratios below minimum regulatory requirements. The Federal Reserve Bank has also imposed dividend restrictions on Bancorp. 24 Table of Contents Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities During the fourth quarter of 2012, Bancorp did not have any sales of unregistered securities. Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers None. Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans In December 2011, the Board of Directors approved the Company s 2012 Stock Plan, authorizing 3,000,000 shares to be issued. No awards were granted in 2011. As of December 31, 2012, Bancorp had 2,032,613 securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. 25 Table of Contents Performance Graph The performance graph compares the yearly percentage change in Bancorp s cumulative total shareholder return on its common stock over the last five fiscal years to the cumulative total return of the S P 500 Index and the NASDAQ Bank Index. Total shareholder return is measured by dividing the sum of the cumulative amount of dividends for the measurement period (assuming dividend reinvestment) and the difference between Bancorp s share price at the end and the beginning of the measurement period, by the share price at the beginning of the measurement period. Total Return 12/31/2007 12/31/2008 12/31/2009 12/31/2010 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 PNBK 100 42.9 9.7 13.1 11.0 7.8 .BANK 100 76.1 62.0 69.4 60.8 70.3 .SPX 100 61.5 75.9 85.6 85.6 97.1 26 Table of Contents °Item 6. Selected Financial Data At or for the year ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Operating Data: Interest and dividend income $ 25,216,517 $ 28,332,309 $ 35,608,891 $ 42,968,080 $ 55,750,246 Interest expense 7,419,452 8,510,443 13,474,543 24,359,828 28,539,067 Net interest income 17,797,065 19,821,866 22,134,348 18,608,252 27,211,179 Provision for loan losses (2,379,223 ) 7,464,427 7,714,000 13,089,000 11,289,772 Non-interest income (loss) 3,273,496 3,411,477 2,354,240 2,946,480 (149,108 ) Non-interest expense 23,985,948 31,228,402 31,948,533 30,131,588 25,947,905 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 225,000 2,213,750 (3,064,000 ) Net loss (536,164 ) (15,459,486 ) (15,398,945 ) (23,879,606 ) (7,111,606 ) Per Share Data: Basic loss per share (0.01 ) (0.40 ) (1.30 ) (5.02 ) (1.50 ) Diluted loss per share (0.01 ) (0.40 ) (1.30 ) (5.02 ) (1.50 ) Dividends per share 0.180 Balance Sheet Data: Cash and due from banks 70,303,641 54,715,809 136,324,258 97,535,593 4,286,233 Federal funds sold 10,000,000 10,000,000 20,000,000 Short-term investments 710,766 709,567 453,400 263,839 316,518 Investment securities 51,293,320 76,185,272 49,765,000 55,177,931 58,401,177 Loans, net 458,793,536 501,227,297 534,531,213 645,205,943 788,568,687 Total assets (2) 617,855,135 665,816,278 784,324,854 866,416,921 913,358,978 Total deposits (1) 497,282,898 544,909,393 646,808,829 761,334,292 784,821,351 Total borrowings 65,248,000 65,248,000 65,248,000 65,248,000 65,248,000 Total shareholders equity 49,567,798 50,549,660 67,172,188 35,861,310 58,774,144 (1) Includes $24.7 million of deposits held for sale at December 31, 2012. (2) Includes $88,000 of branch assets held for sale at December 31, 2012. 27 Table of Contents °Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies Bancorp s significant accounting policies are described in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included in this 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and to disclose contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Management has identified accounting for the allowance for loan losses, the analysis and valuation of its investment securities, and the valuation of deferred tax assets, as Bancorp s most critical accounting policies and estimates in that they are important to the portrayal of Bancorp s financial condition and results. They require management s most subjective and complex judgment as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. Allowance for Loan Losses The allowance for loan losses is established as losses are estimated to have occurred through a provision for loan losses charged to earnings. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectibility of a loan balance is confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. The allowance for loan losses is evaluated on a regular basis by management and is based upon management s periodic review of the collectability of the loans in light of historical experience, the nature and volume of the loan portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower s ability to repay, estimated value of any underlying collateral and prevailing economic conditions. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available. The allowance consists of allocated and general components. The allocated component relates to loans that are considered impaired. For such impaired loans, an allowance is established when the discounted cash flows (or collateral value if the loan is collateral dependent or observable market price) of the impaired loan is lower than the carrying value of that loan. The general component covers all other loans, segregated generally by loan type, and is based on historical loss experience with adjustments for qualitative factors which are made after an assessment of internal or external influences on credit quality that are not fully reflected in the historical loss data. In addition, a risk rating system is utilized to evaluate the general component of the allowance for loan losses. Under this system, management assigns risk ratings between one and eleven. Risk ratings are assigned based upon the recommendations of the credit analyst and the originating loan officer and confirmed by the Loan Committee at the initiation of the transactions and are reviewed and changed, when necessary, during the life of the loan. Loans assigned a risk rating of six or above are monitored more closely by the credit administration officers and the Loan Committee. 28 Table of Contents The Company provides for loan losses based on the consistent application of our documented allowance for loan loss methodology. Loan losses are charged to the allowance for loans losses and recoveries are credited to it. Additions to the allowance for loan losses are provided by charges against income based on various factors which, in our judgment, deserve current recognition in estimating probable losses. Loan losses are charged-off in the period the loans, or portion thereof, are deemed uncollectible. Generally, the Company will record a loan charge-off (including a partial charge-off) to reduce a loan to the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral, less cost to sell, for collateral dependent loans. The Company regularly reviews the loan portfolio and makes adjustments for loan losses in order to maintain the allowance for loan losses in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The allowance for loan losses consists primarily of the following two components: (1) Allowances are established for impaired loans (generally defined by the Company as non-accrual loans, troubled debt restructured loans and loans that were previously classified as troubled debt restructurings but have been upgraded). The amount of impairment provided for as an allowance is represented by the deficiency, if any, between the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the original loan s effective interest rate or the underlying collateral value, less estimated costs to sell, if the loan is collateral dependent, and the carrying value of the loan. Impaired loans that have no impairment losses are not considered for general valuation allowances described below. (2) General allowances are established for loan losses on a portfolio basis for loans that do not meet the definition of impaired. The portfolio is grouped into similar risk characteristics, primarily loan type, loan-to-value, if collateral dependent, and internal risk ratings. Management applies an estimated loss rate to each loan group. The loss rates applied are based on the Company s cumulative prior two year loss experience adjusted, as appropriate, for the environmental factors discussed below. This evaluation is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be susceptible to significant revisions based upon changes in economic and real estate market conditions. Actual loan losses may be more or less than the allowance for loan losses management has established, which could have an effect on the Company s financial results. The adjustments to the Company s loss experience are based on Management s evaluation of several environmental factors, including: Changes in local, regional, national and international economic and business conditions and developments that affect the collectability of the portfolio, including the condition of various market segments; Changes in the nature and volume of the portfolio and in the terms of the loans; Changes in the experience, ability, and depth of lending management and other relevant staff; Changes in the volume and severity of past due loans, the volume of nonaccrual loans, and the volume and severity of adversely classified or graded loans; Changes in the quality of the loan review system; Changes in the value of the underlying collateral for collateral-dependent loans; The existence and effect of any concentrations of credit, and changes in the level of such concentrations; and The effect of other external factors such as competition and legal and regulatory requirements on the level of estimated credit losses in the existing portfolio. 29 Table of Contents In underwriting a loan secured by real property, we require an appraisal of the property by an independent licensed appraiser approved by the Company s Board of Directors. All appraisals are reviewed by qualified parties independent from the firm preparing the appraisals. The appraisal is subject to review by an independent third party hired by the Company. Management reviews and inspects properties before disbursement of funds during the term of a construction loan. Generally, management obtains updated appraisals when a loan is deemed impaired and if a construction loan, within 120 days prior to the scheduled maturity date. These appraisals may be more limited than those prepared for the underwriting of a new loan. Management evaluates the allowance for loan losses based on the combined total of the impaired and general components. Generally, when the loan portfolio increases, absent other factors, the allowance for loan loss methodology results in a higher dollar amount of estimated probable losses. Conversely, when the loan portfolio decreases, absent other factors, the allowance for loan loss methodology results in a lower dollar amount of estimated probable losses. Each quarter management evaluates the allowance for loan losses and adjust the allowance as appropriate through a provision for loan losses. While the Company uses the best information available to make evaluations, future adjustments to the allowance may be necessary if conditions differ substantially from the information used in making the evaluations. In addition, as an integral part of their examination process, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will periodically review the allowance for loan losses. The OCC may require the Company to adjust the allowance based on their analysis of information available to them at the time of their examination. Fair Value Measurements Bancorp uses fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain assets and to determine fair value disclosures. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value is best determined based upon quoted market prices. However, in certain instances, there are no quoted market prices for certain assets or liabilities. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques. Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows. Accordingly, the fair value estimates may not be realized in an immediate settlement of the asset or liability. Fair value measurements focus on exit prices in an orderly transaction (that is, not a forced liquidation or distressed sale) between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. If there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability, a change in valuation technique or the use of multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate. In such instances, determining the price at which willing market participants would transact at the measurement date under current market conditions depends on the facts and circumstances and requires the use of significant judgment. 30 Table of Contents The Company's fair value measurements are classified into a fair value hierarchy based on the markets in which the assets and liabilities are traded and the reliability of the assumptions used to determine fair value. The three categories within the hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 Inputs Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the reporting entity has the ability to access at the measurement date. Level 2 Inputs Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. These might include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability (such as interest rates, volatilities, prepayment speeds, credit risks, etc.) or inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by market data by correlation or other means. Level 3 Inputs Unobservable inputs for determining the fair values of assets or liabilities that reflect an entity's own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the assets or liabilities. The asset s or liability s fair value measurement level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lower level of any input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Valuation techniques used need to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs. Bancorp performs a quarterly analysis of those securities that are in an unrealized loss position to determine if those losses qualify as other-than-temporary impairments. This analysis considers the following criteria in its determination: the ability of the issuer to meet its obligations, the impairment due to a deterioration in credit, management s plans and ability to maintain its investment in the security, the length of time and the amount by which the security has been in a loss position, the interest rate environment, the general economic environment and prospects or projections for improvement or deterioration. Management has made the determination that none of the Bank s investment securities are other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2012, and no impairment charges were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2012. 31 Table of Contents Income taxes The Company recognizes income taxes under the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and loss carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company recognizes a benefit from its tax positions only if it is more-likely-than-not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. The periods subject to examination for the Company s Federal returns are the tax years 2007 through 2012. The periods subject to examination for the Company s significant state return, which is Connecticut, are the tax years 2008 through 2012. The Company believes that its income tax filing positions and deductions will be sustained upon examination and does not anticipate any adjustments that will result in a material change in its financial statements. As a result, no reserve for uncertain income tax positions has been recorded. The Company s policy for recording interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions is to record such items as part of its provision for federal and state income taxes. Recent Economic Developments There have been significant and historical disruptions in the financial system during the past few years and many lenders and financial institutions have reduced or ceased to provide funding to borrowers, including other lending institutions. The availability of credit, confidence in the entire financial sector, and volatility in financial markets has been adversely affected. The Federal Reserve Bank has been providing vast amounts of liquidity into the banking system to compensate for weaknesses in short-term borrowing markets and other capital markets. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insures deposits at FDIC-insured financial institutions up to certain limits. The FDIC charges insured financial institutions premiums to maintain the Deposit Insurance Fund. Based on the Bank s current capital classification, a higher level of FDIC insurance premiums is assessed. 32 Table of Contents Patriot National Bank participated in the FDIC Transaction Account Guarantee Program which guaranteed full coverage on certain noninterest-bearing deposit transaction accounts, such as business accounts, until the expiration date of the program on December 31, 2010. Effective December 31, 2010 through December 31, 2012, the Board of Directors of the FDIC implemented a new final rule under section 343 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act that provides temporary unlimited coverage to depositors with noninterest-bearing transaction accounts, in addition to, and separate from, the coverage of at least $250,000 available under the FDIC s general rules. The term noninterest-bearing transaction account includes a traditional checking account or demand deposit account on which the Bank pays no interest. It also includes Interest on Lawyer Trust Accounts ( IOLTAs ). It does not include other accounts, such as Traditional checking or demand deposit accounts that may earn interest, NOW accounts or money market deposit accounts. The extended program was not renewed on December 31, 2012. Bancorp did not participate in the Debt Guarantee portion of the TLGP. Summary During a period of slow economic improvement, Bancorp reported a net loss of $536,000 ($0.01 loss per share) for 2012 compared to a net loss of $15.5 million ($0.40 loss per share) for 2011. This is primarily due to the improvement in the credit quality of the loan portfolio resulting in a reduction of $2.4 million to the provision for loan losses, compared to a $7.5 million provision in 2011, which included a $6.0 million adjustment to the provision due to the bulk sale of $66.8 million of non-performing assets in the first quarter of 2011. In addition, restructuring charges and asset disposals recorded in 2012 were $939,000 compared to $3.0 million recorded in the second quarter of 2011. Primarily as a result of restructuring charges incurred in 2011, salaries and benefits and occupancy and equipment expense were $2.3 million lower in 2012. Total assets ended the year at $617.9 million, which represents a decrease of $47.9 million from 2011. Management strategically planned for a continuation of a reduction in assets in 2012, as part of the Company s ongoing turnaround plan to reduce exposures in certain loan concentrations and to maintain regulatory capital ratios. Net interest income for the year ended December 31, 2012 decreased $2.0 million, or 10%, to $17.8 million as compared to $19.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. This is the result of a reduced level of average earning assets, continued high levels of liquidity and the overall lower interest rate environment. Total assets decreased 7% during the year as the loan portfolio decreased $42.4 million from $501.2 million at December 31, 2011 to $458.8 million at December 31, 2012. The available-for-sale securities portfolio decreased $24.8 million, or 37%, to $41.7 million at December 31, 2012 as compared to $66.5 million at December 31, 2011. Total deposits decreased $47.6 million from $544.9 million at December 31, 2011 to $497.3 million at December 31, 2012. This is reflective of management s pricing strategy to lower the cost of funds and reduce the reliance on higher cost funding products. FHLB advances are unchanged from December 31, 2011. Shareholders equity decreased $982,000 from $50.5 million at December 31, 2011 as compared to $49.6 million at December 31, 2012. This is primarily the result of the net loss of $536,000 and the $752,000 reduction of accumulated other comprehensive income, partially offset by equity award grants of $306,000. 33 Table of Contents FINANCIAL CONDITION Assets Bancorp s total assets decreased $47.9 million, or 7%, from $665.8 million at December 31, 2011 to $617.9 million at December 31, 2012 as the Bank reduced its concentration of residential loans by $69.1 million primarily through loan sales. Construction loans continued to pay off and overall balances were reduced by $12.5 million or 56%. Commercial real estate loans increased $31.8 million. Interest bearing deposits increased $17.1 million compared to December 31, 2011, as the Bank chose to maintain higher levels of short-term liquidity during this record low interest rate environment, rather than locking in longer term investments at narrow spreads. Investments The following table is a summary of Bancorp s investment portfolio at fair value at December 31 for the years shown. 2012 2011 2010 U. S. Government Agency bonds $ 7,526,170 $ 5,037,085 $ U. S. Government Agency mortgage-backed securities 25,706,891 50,049,429 37,471,878 Corporate bonds 8,486,259 11,383,458 Auction Rate preferred equity securities 3,092,822 Federal Reserve Bank stock 1,730,200 1,707,000 1,192,000 Federal Home Loan Bank stock 4,343,800 4,508,300 4,508,300 Other investments 3,500,000 3,500,000 3,500,000 Total Investments $ 51,293,320 $ 76,185,272 $ 49,765,000 Total investments decreased $24.9 million, or 33%, primarily due to sales of $47.0 million of government agency mortgage-backed securities and bonds and corporate bonds of $3.3 million. In addition, there were principal payments of $7.8 million on the government agency mortgage-backed securities. These were partially offset with purchases of government agency mortgage-backed securities and bonds of $33.5 million. 34 Table of Contents The following table presents the maturity distribution of available-for-sale investment securities at December 31, 2012 and the weighted average yield of the amortized cost of such securities. The weighted average yields were calculated on the amortized cost and effective yields to maturity of each security. Actual maturities of mortgage-backed securities may differ from contractual maturities because the mortgages underlying the securities may be repaid without any penalties. As mortgage-backed securities are not due at a single maturity date, they are included in the No maturity category in the following maturity summary. One year or less Over one through five years Over five through ten years Over ten years No maturity Total Weighted Average Yield U. S. Government Agency bonds $ $ $ 7,500,000 $ $ $ 7,500,000 1.83 % U. S. Government Agency mortgage-backed securities 25,837,100 25,837,100 2.15 % Corporate bonds 9,000,000 9,000,000 4.78 % Total $ $ $ 16,500,000 $ $ 25,837,100 $ 42,337,100 2.65 % Weighted average yield 3.44 % 2.15 % 2.65 % The following table presents a summary of investments for any issuer that exceeds 10% of shareholders equity at December 31, 2012: Amortized Cost Fair Value Available for sale securities : U. S. Government Agency mortgage-backed securities and bonds $ 33,337,100 $ 33,233,061 35 Table of Contents Loans The following table is a summary of Bancorp s loan portfolio at December 31 for each of the years shown: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Real Estate Commercial $ 247,495,321 $ 215,659,837 $ 228,842,489 $ 230,225,306 $ 262,570,339 Residential 119,033,025 188,108,855 187,058,318 195,571,225 170,449,780 Construction 4,997,991 12,306,922 63,889,083 154,457,082 257,117,081 Construction to permanent 4,851,768 10,012,022 10,331,043 15,989,976 35,625,992 Commercial 36,428,751 31,810,735 14,573,790 19,298,505 33,860,527 Consumer home equity 49,180,908 49,694,546 42,884,962 44,309,265 45,022,128 Consumer and overdrafts 2,162,718 2,164,972 1,932,763 1,155,059 993,707 Total loans 464,150,482 509,757,889 549,512,448 661,006,418 805,639,554 Premiums on purchased loans 219,649 231,125 242,426 131,993 158,072 Net deferred costs (fees) 439,041 622,955 150,440 (138,350 ) (981,869 ) Allowance for loan losses (6,015,636 ) (9,384,672 ) (15,374,101 ) (15,794,118 ) (16,247,070 ) Loans, net $ 458,793,536 $ 501,227,297 $ 534,531,213 $ 645,205,943 $ 788,568,687 Bancorp s net loan portfolio decreased $42.4 million, or 8%, to $458.8 million at December 31, 2012 from $501.2 million at December 31, 2011. The decline in the loan portfolio was primarily the result of sales of residential real estate loans and loan payoffs. Significant decreases in the portfolio include a $69.0 million decrease in residential loans, a $7.3 million decrease in construction loans, and a $5.2 million decrease in construction to permanent loans. These were partially offset with a $31.8 million increase in commercial real estate loans and a $4.6 million increase in commercial loans. The allowance for loan losses also decreased by $3.4 million. The decline in the loan portfolio in 2012 primarily reflects management s decision to reduce a growing concentration in lower yielding residential real estate loans. At December 31, 2012, the net loan to deposit ratio was 92% and the net loan to asset ratio was 74%. Excluding the deposits held for sale at December 31, 2012, the net loan to deposit ratio was 97%. At December 31, 2011, the net loan to deposit ratio was 92%, and the net loan to asset ratio was 75%. 36 Table of Contents Maturities and Sensitivities of Loans to Changes in Interest Rates The following table presents the maturities of loans in Bancorp s portfolio at December 31, 2012, by type of loan: (thousands of dollars) Due in one year or less Due after one year through five years Due after five years Total Commercial real estate $ 28,712,147 $ 40,597,520 $ 178,185,654 $ 247,495,321 Residential real estate 500,000 118,533,025 119,033,025 Construction loans 4,997,991 4,997,991 Construction to permanent loans 1,258,710 3,593,058 4,851,768 Commercial loans 1,326,263 5,581,589 29,520,899 36,428,751 Consumer home equity 2,810 127,612 49,050,486 49,180,908 Consumer and overdrafts 4,584 103,889 2,054,245 2,162,718 Total $ 35,543,795 $ 47,669,320 $ 380,937,367 $ 464,150,482 Fixed rate loans $ 20,720,324 $ 36,049,028 $ 37,734,262 $ 94,503,614 Variable rate loans 14,823,471 11,620,292 343,203,105 369,646,868 Total $ 35,543,795 $ 47,669,320 $ 380,937,367 $ 464,150,482 Loan Concentrations The Bank has no concentrations of loans other than those disclosed in the above summary loan portfolio table. Commercial real estate plus construction represents 55.4% of total loans, up from 46.7% at December 31, 2011. Allowance for Loan Losses The allowance for loan losses is established as losses are estimated to have occurred through a provision for loan losses charged to earnings. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectibility of a loan balance is confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. The allowance for loan losses is evaluated on a quarterly basis by management and is based upon management s periodic review of the collectability of the loans in light of historical experience, the nature and volume of the loan portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower s ability to repay, estimated value of any underlying collateral and prevailing economic conditions. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available. The allowance for loan losses decreased $3.4 million from December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012 primarily due to a reduction in loan balances, improved credit quality of the loan portfolio and a change in methodology in estimating the allowance as described more fully below. The factors resulted in a release of excess reserves of $2.4 million. 37 Table of Contents As of the first quarter of 2012, the Bank had used a 12 quarter un-weighted average to calculate loss history. Beginning in the second quarter of 2012, the Bank implemented changes to the allowance methodology, resulting in a reduction of the allowance for loan losses of $1.1 million. In making this transition, the changes serve to update and enhance the methodology to better reflect the direction of the current loan portfolio. The changes are threefold: First, the Bank adopted a two year, instead of a three year, weighted average historical loss factor as the basis for the calculation of its historical loss experience. This is used to calculate expected losses in the ASC 450-20 , Contingencies pools prior to the application of qualitative risk adjustment factors. Weightings were allocated 59% to the last four quarters and 41% to the previous four quarters. This change was made to be more responsive to the changing credit environment. Net charge-offs have declined. This shorter average historical loss period will produce results more indicative of the current and expected behavior of the portfolio. Second, the Bank adopted an Internal Risk Ratings Based (IRB) approach to calculating historical loss rates. This approach calibrates expected losses with actual risk assessment and equates the likelihood of loss to the level of risk in a credit facility rating. All loans are reviewed annually. Similarly, the Loan Committee can adjust a risk rating. Previously, loss history was applied to categories of loans and qualitative adjustments were apportioned by risk rating within the categories. Third, the Bank increased the detail of analysis within the segments, particularly within Commercial Real Estate lending, which is currently the Bank s largest concentration overall, by expanding the number of ASC 450-20 pools. In all, ten sub-concentrations have been added to the analysis. The greater level of detail enables the Bank to better apply qualitative risk adjustment factors to the segments affected and to monitor changes in credit risk within the portfolio. The accrual of interest on loans is discontinued at the time the loan is 90 days past due for payment unless the loan is well-secured and in process of collection. Consumer installment loans are typically charged off no later than 180 days past due. Past due status is based on contractual terms of the loan. In all cases, loans are placed on nonaccrual status or charged-off at an earlier date if collection of principal or interest is considered doubtful. All interest accrued but not collected for loans that are placed on nonaccrual status or charged off is reversed against interest income. The interest on these loans is accounted for on the cash-basis method until qualifying for return to accrual status. Loans are returned to accrual status when all the principal and interest amounts contractually due are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured. Management considers all non-accrual loans and troubled debt restructurings to be impaired. In most cases, loan payments that are past due less than 90 days, based on contractual terms, are considered collection delays and the related loans are not considered to be impaired. The Bank considers consumer installment loans to be pools of smaller balance homogeneous loans, which are collectively evaluated for impairment. 38 Table of Contents Analysis of Allowance for Loan Losses 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (thousands of dollars) Balance at beginning of period $ 9,385 $ 15,374 $ 15,794 $ 16,247 $ 5,673 Charge-offs: Commercial real estate (50 ) (2,941 ) (2,560 ) (2,380 ) (708 ) Residential real estate (85 ) (1,458 ) (600 ) (356 ) Construction (101 ) (3,305 ) (4,726 ) (9,097 ) Commercial (48 ) (375 ) (396 ) (468 ) Consumer home equity (745 ) (150 ) (46 ) (1,378 ) Consumer (41 ) (24 ) (42 ) (51 ) (8 ) Total charge-offs (1,070 ) (8,253 ) (8,370 ) (13,730 ) (716 ) Recoveries 80 854 236 188 1 Net charge-offs (990 ) (7,399 ) (8,134 ) (13,542 ) (715 ) Additions charged to operations (2,379 ) 7,464 7,714 13,089 11,289 Transferred to held-for-sale (6,054 ) Balance at end of period $ 6,016 $ 9,385 $ 15,374 $ 15,794 $ 16,247 Ratio of net charge-offs during the period to average loans outstanding during the period 0.20 % 1.52 % 1.32 % 1.81 % 0.09 % Ratio of ALLL / Gross Loans 1.29 % 1.84 % 2.80 % 2.39 % 2.02 % Allocation of the Allowance for Loan Losses Balance at end of each Amounts (thousands of dollars) Percent of loans in each category to total loans period applicable to: 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Real Estate: Commercial $ 3,509 $ 4,019 $ 7,633 $ 5,752 $ 4,843 53.32 % 42.31 % 41.64 % 34.83 % 32.59 % Residential 897 2,551 2,364 1,575 1,417 25.65 % 36.90 % 34.04 % 29.59 % 21.16 % Construction 311 867 3,478 6,557 8,654 1.08 % 2.41 % 11.63 % 23.37 % 31.91 % Construction to permanent 19 547 492 93 264 1.05 % 1.96 % 1.88 % 2.42 % 4.42 % Commercial 942 882 441 521 471 7.85 % 6.24 % 2.65 % 2.92 % 4.20 % Consumer installment 33 55 80 47 28 0.47 % 0.42 % 0.35 % 0.17 % 0.12 % Consumer home equity 184 404 498 703 336 10.58 % 9.76 % 7.81 % 6.70 % 5.59 % Unallocated 121 60 388 546 234 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Total $ 6,016 $ 9,385 $ 15,374 $ 15,794 $ 16,247 100.00 % 100.00 % 100.00 % 100.00 % 100.00 % 39 Table of Contents Non-Accrual, Past Due and Restructured Loans The following table is a summary of non-accrual and past due loans at the end of each of the last five years. 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 (thousands of dollars) Loans delinquent over 90 days still accruing $ 2,234 $ 9,461 $ 3,374 $ 3,571 $ 337 Non-accrual loans 23,810 20,683 89,150 113,537 80,156 $ 26,044 $ 30,144 $ 92,524 $ 117,108 $ 80,493 % of Total Loans 5.60 % 5.91 % 16.83 % 17.72 % 10.21 % % of Total Assets 4.22 % 4.53 % 11.80 % 13.52 % 8.81 % Additional income on non-accrual loans if recognized on an accrual basis $ 1,525 $ 2,275 $ 6,618 $ 5,312 $ 2,854 Included in non-accruing loans were loans of $3.5 million and $7.7 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively that were current within 30 days as to payments. Loans past due ninety days or more, and still accruing interest were $2.2 million and $9.5 million at December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011 respectively. Four of the five loans as of December 31, 2012, totaling $1,667,000, were making payments, but past the loan s maturity date and are in the process of being renewed. The other loan totaling $567,000 was over 90 days past due as to payments and past the loan s maturity date, but was subsequently paid off in 2013. At December 31, 2011, ten of the thirteen loans totaling $4.9 million were current as to loan payments, but past the loan s maturity dates. Three loans totaling $4.6 million were over 30 days but under 60 days past due as to payments. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, interest income collected and recognized on impaired loans was $230,900, $464,785 and $1,806,759, respectively. At December 31, 2012, there were 8 loans totaling $11.6 million that were considered troubled debt restructurings, as compared to 12 loans totaling $25.5 million that were considered troubled debt restructurings at December 31, 2011, all of which are considered impaired loans. Loan modifications, which resulted in these loans being considered troubled debt restructurings, are primarily in the form of rate concessions or term extensions. There were no commitments to advance additional funds under modified terms for these loans. 40 Table of Contents The Company s most recent impairment analysis resulted in identification of $33.4 million of impaired loans, for which specific reserves of $968,000 were required at December 31, 2012, compared to $36.8 million of impaired loans at December 31, 2011, for which specific reserves of $1.3 million were required. The $33.4 million of impaired loans at December 31, 2012 is comprised of exposure to 30 borrowers, compared to the $36.8 million of impaired loans at December 31, 2011 which was comprised of exposure to 31 borrowers. In all cases, the Bank has obtained current appraisal reports from independent licensed appraisal firms and reduced those values for estimated selling expenses to determine estimated impairment. The non-performing loans increased from $20.7 million at December 31, 2011 to $23.8 million at December 31, 2012. The $23.8 million of non-performing loans was comprised of 24 borrowers at December 31, 2012, compared to 26 borrowers at December 31, 2011. The non-performing loans peaked at $137.9 million at September 30, 2009. The decrease in the number of non-performing loans represents the Bank s continuous focus on the workout effort. Loans delinquent over 90 days and still accruing aggregating $2.2 million were comprised of five loans, four totaling $1.7 million were making payments, but past the loan s maturity date and were in the process of being renewed. The other loan totaling $567,000 was over 90 days past due as to payments and past the loan s maturity date, but was subsequently paid off. Based upon the overall assessment and evaluation of the loan portfolio, management believes the allowance for loan losses of $6.0 million, at December 31, 2012, which represents 1.29% of gross loans outstanding, is adequate under prevailing economic conditions, to absorb existing losses in the loan portfolio. At December 31, 2011, the allowance for loan losses was $9.4 million, or 1.84%, of gross loans outstanding. The loan portfolio was reduced by $42.4 million, or 8.5%. Other Real Estate Owned The following table is a summary of Bancorp s other real estate owned as of December 31, 2012 and 2011. December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 Residential construction $ 1,109,204 $ 1,140,560 Commercial 1,622,080 Residential real estate 3,764,640 Other real estate owned $ 4,873,844 $ 2,762,640 The balance of other real estate owned at December 31, 2012 and 2011 was comprised of two and three properties, respectively, all of which were obtained through loan foreclosure proceedings. During the year ended December 31, 2012, the Bank acquired three properties and sold four properties with an aggregate carrying value of $3.2 million. During the year ended December 31, 2011, the Bank sold eight properties with an aggregate carrying value of $19.4 million; four of which were included in the March 2011 bulk sale of non-performing assets with an aggregate carrying value of $14.4 million. In addition, the Bank purchased the remaining interest in one property and acquired four other properties during 2011. 41 Table of Contents Deferred Taxes The determination of the amount of deferred income tax assets which are more likely than not to be realized is primarily dependent on projections of future earnings, which are subject to uncertainty and estimates that may change given economic conditions and other factors. A valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets is required when it is considered more likely than not that all or part of the benefit related to such assets will not be realized. Management has reviewed the deferred tax position of Bancorp at December 31, 2012. The deferred tax position has been affected by several significant transactions in prior years. These transactions include the change in ownership, in addition to, the increased provision for loan losses, the levels of non-accrual loans and other-than-temporary impairment write-offs of certain investments. As a result, the Company is in a cumulative net loss position at December 31, 2012, and under the applicable accounting guidance, has concluded that it is not more-likely-than-not that the Company will be able to realize its deferred tax assets and accordingly has established a full valuation allowance totaling $15.0 million against its deferred tax asset at December 31, 2012. The valuation allowance is analyzed quarterly for changes affecting the deferred tax asset. If, in the future, the Company generates taxable income on a sustained basis, management s conclusion regarding the need for a deferred tax asset valuation allowance could change, resulting in the reversal of all or a portion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. Deposits The following table is a summary of Bancorp s deposits at December 31 for each of the years shown: 2012 2011 2010 Non-interest bearing $ 65,176,125 $ 65,613,374 $ 51,058,373 Interest bearing Certificates of deposit, less than $100,000 160,610,601 198,207,998 251,296,558 Certificates of deposit, $100,000 or more 121,142,374 144,405,859 175,431,252 Money markets 42,401,428 52,889,642 92,683,478 Savings 77,760,967 59,396,310 57,041,943 NOW 30,191,403 24,396,210 19,297,225 Total interest bearing 432,106,773 479,296,019 595,750,456 Total deposits (1) $ 497,282,898 $ 544,909,393 $ 646,808,829 (1) Included in total deposits are $24.7 million of deposits held for sale at December 31, 2012. Total deposits decreased $47.6 million, or 9%, to $497.3 million at December 31, 2012. Interest bearing deposits decreased $47.2 million, or 10%, to $432.1 million while non-interest bearing deposits decreased $437,000, or 1%, to $65.2 million at December 31, 2012. 42 Table of Contents Certificates of deposit decreased by $60.9 million, which represents a decrease of 18% when compared to last year. Certificates of deposit less than $100,000 and certificates of deposit greater than $100,000 decreased by $37.6 million, or 19%, and $23.3 million, or 16%, respectively. This is a result of management intentionally allowing higher rate certificates of deposit to mature. Money market fund accounts decreased $10.5 million, or 20%. This is a result of the lower interest rates paid on these products in the current environment. Savings accounts increased $18.4 million, or 31%, as compared to last year and NOW accounts increased $5.8 million, or 24% due to the implementation of the new core deposit relationship products. As of December 31, 2012, the Bank s maturities of time deposits were: Less than $100,000 $100,000 or greater Totals (thousands of dollars) Three months or less $ 32,470 $ 23,407 $ 55,877 Four to six months 41,477 31,034 72,511 Seven months to one year 42,952 32,602 75,554 Over one year 43,712 34,099 77,811 Total $ 160,611 $ 121,142 $ 281,753 Borrowings Borrowings remain unchanged at $65.2 million at December 31, 2012 as compared to December 31, 2011. Borrowings are comprised of $50 million in Federal Home Loan Bank Advances, $8.2 million in junior subordinated debentures and $7 million in securities sold under repurchase agreements. The Bank had no short-term borrowings from the Federal Home Loan Bank outstanding at December 31, 2012 and 2011. In addition, at December 31, 2012, the Bank has advances of $50.0 million from the Federal Home Loan Bank with maturities greater than one year. Shareholders Equity Shareholders equity decreased $982,000 from $50.5 million at December 31, 2011 as compared to $49.6 million at December 31, 2012. This is the result of the net loss of $536,000 and the $752,000 reduction of accumulated other comprehensive income, partially offset by equity award grants of $306,000. Other The aggregate cash surrender value of the bank-owned life insurance at December 31, 2012 increased $517,000 to $21.5 million due to income earned of $517,000 for the year. The decrease in accrued interest receivable is due to lower outstanding balances in loans at year end and lower yields on the current portfolio. Premises and equipment increased $180,000 from $4.1 million at December 31, 2011 to $4.3 million at December 31, 2012. This is due primarily to the addition of an office building of $965,000, partially offset with asset disposals of $65,000 related to four branch closings, in addition to the amortization associated with leasehold improvements, furniture and fixtures, and equipment. 43 Table of Contents The following table presents average balance sheets (daily averages), interest income, interest expense and the corresponding yields earned and rates paid: Distribution of Assets, Liabilities and Shareholder s Equity Interest Rates and Interest Differential and Rate Volume Variance Analysis (1) (thousands of dollars) 2012 2011 2010 2012 vs. 2011 Fluctuations Interest Income/Expense (3) Due to Change in: 2011 vs. 2010 Fluctuations Interest Income/Expense (3) Due to Change in: Interest Interest Interest Average Income/ Average Average Income/ Average Average Income/ Average Balance Expense Rate Balance Expense Rate Balance Expense Rate Volume Rate Total Volume Rate Total Interest earning assets: Loans (2) $ 494,333 $ 23,482 4.75 % $ 487,826 $ 25,958 5.32 % $ 617,403 $ 33,616 5.44 % $ 341 $ (2,817 ) $ (2,476 ) $ (6,930 ) $ (728 ) $ (7,658 ) Federal funds sold and other cash equivalents 55,638 98 0.18 % 62,519 144 0.23 % 81,400 202 0.25 % (16 ) (30 ) (46 ) (43 ) (15 ) (58 ) Investments (4) 60,799 1,636 2.69 % 80,121 2,230 2.78 % 62,223 1,791 2.88 % (524 ) (70 ) (594 ) 503 (64 ) 439 Total interest earning assets $ 610,770 $ 25,216 4.13 % $ 630,466 $ 28,332 4.49 % $ 761,026 $ 35,609 4.68 % (199 ) (2,917 ) (3,116 ) (6,470 ) (807 ) (7,277 ) Cash and due from banks 4,660 19,695 20,964 Allowance for loan losses (7,771 ) (12,386 ) (15,579 ) Other assets 32,206 37,572 49,413 Total Assets $ 639,865 $ 675,347 $ 815,824 Interest bearing liabilities: Time certificates $ 313,693 $ 4,932 1.57 % $ 343,625 $ 5,947 1.73 % $ 465,182 $ 9,723 2.09 % $ (492 ) $ (523 ) $ (1,015 ) $ (2,276 ) $ (1,500 ) $ (3,776 ) Savings accounts 66,137 331 0.50 % 56,391 235 0.42 % 59,270 489 0.83 % 36 60 96 (23 ) (231 ) (254 ) Money market accounts 46,944 72 0.15 % 67,815 89 0.13 % 109,302 892 0.82 % (24 ) 7 (17 ) (250 ) (553 ) (803 ) NOW accounts 25,617 16 0.06 % 23,086 12 0.05 % 21,618 75 0.35 % 1 3 4 5 (68 ) (63 ) FHLB advances 54,320 1,459 2.69 % 50,000 1,632 3.26 % 50,000 1,699 3.40 % 131 (304 ) (173 ) (67 ) (67 ) Subordinated debt 8,248 300 3.64 % 8,248 286 3.47 % 8,248 288 3.49 % 14 14 (2 ) (2 ) Other borrowings 7,000 309 4.41 % 7,000 309 4.41 % 7,000 309 4.41 % Total interest bearing liabilities $ 521,959 $ 7,419 1.42 % $ 556,165 $ 8,510 1.53 % $ 720,620 $ 13,475 1.87 % (348 ) (743 ) (1,091 ) (2,544 ) (2,421 ) (4,965 ) Demand deposits 61,586 57,548 49,572 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 5,370 5,705 4,984 Shareholder's equity 50,950 55,929 40,648 Total liabilities and equity $ 639,865 $ 675,347 $ 815,824 Net interest income $ 17,797 $ 19,822 $ 22,134 $ 149 $ (2,174 ) $ (2,025 ) $ (3,926 ) $ 1,614 $ (2,312 ) Interest margin 2.91 % 3.14 % 2.91 % Interest spread 2.71 % 2.96 % 2.81 % (1) The rate volume analysis reflects the changes in net interest income arising from changes in interest rates and from asset and liability volume, including mix. The change in interest attributable to volume includes changes in interest attributable to mix. (2) Includes non-accruing loans (3) Favorable/(unfavorable) fluctuations. (4) Yields are calculated at historical cost and excludes the effects of unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities. 44 Table of Contents RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Comparison of Results of Operations for the years 2012 and 2011 Bancorp recorded improved operating results for the year ended December 31, 2012, reporting a net loss of $536,000 ($0.01 per share) compared to a net loss of $15.5 million ($0.40 per share) for the year ended December 31, 2011. The primary reasons for the improved operating performance were a reduction in the provision for loan losses of $9.8 million, a decrease in restructuring charges and asset disposals of $2.0 million, lower salaries and benefits and occupancy and equipment expense of $2.3 million as a result of the benefit from the restructuring charges recorded in 2011 and an improvement of $936,000 in other real estate operations due to improved credit quality and fewer properties acquired through foreclosure. Net interest income decreased 10% from $19.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 to $17.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Total interest and dividend income was $3.1 million, or 11%, lower in 2012 compared to the prior year as a result of lower outstanding average earning assets, loan payoffs on loans carrying interest rates higher than current market rates and new loan originations and investment purchases at rates lower than maintained in the portfolios in 2011. Total interest expense decreased from $8.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 to $7.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Interest expense was lower in 2012 as a result of a decrease in the level of outstanding average interest bearing deposits, reduced dependence upon high cost term deposits as a funding source and the overall lower interest rate environment. Noninterest income was $3.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 compared to $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. The variance was caused primarily from a reduction of $108,000 in fees and service charges. Total non-interest expense of $24.0 million for 2012 was $7.2 million lower than the $31.2 million recorded for 2011. Restructuring charges relating to branch closings and asset disposals and reduction in back office personnel accounted for $2.0 million of the reduction. Lower expenses from other real estate operations accounted for a $936,000 improvement in total operating costs. Salaries and benefits, occupancy and equipment expense, professional and outside services and advertising and promotional expense all showed significant improvement as a result of cost containment programs implemented in 2011. 45 Table of Contents The following are measurements relating to Bancorp s earnings: 2012 2011 2010 Loss on average assets (0.08 %) (2.29 %) (1.89 %) Loss on average equity (1.05 %) (27.64 %) (37.88 %) Dividend payout ratio N / A N / A N / A Average equity to average assets 7.96 % 8.28 % 4.98 % Loss per share $ (0.01 ) $ (0.40 ) $ (1.30 ) Interest income and expense Bancorp s net interest income of $17.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $2.0 million, or 10% less than the $19.8 million recorded for the year ended December 31, 2011. Total interest and dividend income of $25.2 million was $3.1 million, or 11%, lower than the $28.3 million recorded in 2011. Average interest earning assets decreased from $630.5 million in 2011 to $610.8 million in 2012. Average loans outstanding increased slightly from $487.8 million to $494.3 million. The average yield on the portfolio decreased from 5.32% in 2011 to 4.75% in 2012. The lower yield on the portfolio was due to the pay off of loans in the portfolio at rates currently higher than market and the closing of new loans at rates currently lower than the average yield of the portfolio. Average investments outstanding during the year were $19.3 million lower than the $80.1 million maintained during 2011 as Bancorp did not want to commit additional funds to longer term investments during this historically low interest rate environment. The yield on the portfolio declined slightly from 2.78% in 2011 to 2.69% in 2012 due to sales of higher yielding instruments. Cash equivalents decreased from an average outstanding of $62.5 million in 2011 to $55.6 million in 2012 with a corresponding drop in yield from 23 basis points to 18 basis points. The reduction in excess liquidity was used to pay off higher yielding certificates of deposit, and therefore, had a positive impact on the net interest margin. Total interest expense decreased from $8.5 million in 2011 to $7.4 million in 2012. The variance of $1.1 million, or 13%, was due to both lower levels of average outstanding interest bearing liabilities and a significant reduction in the cost of funds for the certificates of deposit portfolio. Total interest expense on certificates of deposit decreased by $1.0 million, or 17%, from $5.9 million in 2011 to $4.9 million in 2012. The portfolio dropped from $343.6 million with a cost of funds of 1.73% to $313.7 million in 2012 at a cost of 1.57%. The reduction in the portfolio was based upon management s strategy to use overnight investments to pay off rate sensitive certificates of deposit as they mature thereby improving the net interest margin and strengthening the overall capital position. Savings accounts increased by $9.7 million during the year based upon the growth in a new core relationship product with a short term promotional introductory rate. The overall cost of funds for savings increased by 8 basis points during the year and interest expense increased by $100,000. Interest expense on FHLB advances decreased by $173,000, or 11%, as Bancorp restructured certain outstanding advances in the fourth quarter of 2011 by extending the term and lowering the rate. Outstanding advances remain at $50 million as of both December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2012. 46 Table of Contents Management regularly reviews loan and deposit rates and attempts to price Bancorp s products competitively. Bancorp tracks its mix of asset/liability maturities and strives to maintain a reasonable match. Performance ratios are reviewed monthly by management and the Board and are used to set strategies. Provision for loan losses During 2011 Bancorp recorded a charge to the provision for loan losses of $7.5 million compared to a credit to the provision of $2.4 million in 2012. The $7.5 million provision in 2011 is primarily related to $6.0 million of loans transferred to held-for-sale in connection with a bulk loan sale of problem assets. The $2.4 million credit to the provision for 2012 was based upon management s evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Overall credit quality has improved and charge offs are down from $8.3 million in 2011 to $1.1 million in 2012. Bancorp continues to maintain conservative underwriting standards including low loan to value ratio guidelines. In addition, the size of the loan portfolio has been significantly reduced with loans receivable of $458.8 million at December 31, 2012 being $42.4 million, or 8%, lower than the prior year end. During the second quarter of 2012 management implemented changes to the methodology for calculating the allowance for loan losses in order to enhance the methodology and better reflect the direction of the loan portfolio. A more detailed description of the change in methodology and an analysis of the change in the allowance for loan losses is presented under the discussion entitled Allowance for Loan Losses within the critical accounting policies section above. Non-interest income Non-interest income decreased by $138,000, or 4%, from $3.4 million in 2011 to $3.3 million in 2012. Fees and service charges were lower by $108,000, or 11%, primarily due to a reduction in the size of the balance sheet. Gain on the sale of investment securities was lower by $199,000. Earnings on the cash surrender value of life insurance were down by $119,000, or 19%, due to the lower interest rate environment. These decreases in non-interest income were partially offset by an increase in the gain on the bulk sale of residential loans of $257,000 and an increase in mortgage banking activity of $105,000. Non-interest expense Non-interest expense decreased $7.2 million, or 23%, from $31.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2011 to $24.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2012. Restructuring charges and asset disposals accounted for $2.0 million of the decrease as total charges in 2011 of $3.0 million related to the closing of four branches and the reduction in force of back office personnel. Primarily as a result of that restructuring, salaries and benefits were reduced by $1.8 million, or 15%, in 2012 and occupancy and equipment expense was lower by $512,000, or 10%. As a result of improved credit quality and reduced foreclosure activity, other real estate operations were reduced by $936,000. Professional and other outside services decreased from $3.4 million in 2011 to $2.6 million, or 24%, consisting primarily of legal and consulting services relating to loan collection activity. Advertising and promotional expense was lower by $487,000, or 85%, as marketing activities were scaled back in accordance with the overall plan to reduce the size of the balance sheet. The decrease of $398,000, or 46%, in insurance expense is primarily related to lower premiums on D O insurance coverage and fewer branch facilities requiring property and casualty insurance. 47 Table of Contents Income Taxes As of December 31, 2012, Bancorp continued to maintain a full valuation allowance of $15.0 million against the net deferred tax asset. The possibility of further loan losses and higher cost levels associated with carrying nonperforming assets, coupled with Bancorp s losses beginning in the third quarter of 2008, creates sufficient uncertainty regarding the Company s ability to realize these deferred tax assets. In future periods, if it becomes more likely that these assets can be utilized, Bancorp may reverse some or all of the valuation allowance. Evidence to substantiate reversing the allowance would include sustained profitability. Comparison of Results of Operations for the years 2011 and 2010 For the year ended December 31, 2011, Bancorp recorded a loss of $15.5 million ($0.40 loss per share), compared to 2010 when Bancorp reported a net loss of $15.4 million ($1.30 loss per share). Interest and dividend income decreased $7.3 million, or 20%, to $28.3 million in 2011 as compared to 2010 when interest and dividend income was $35.6 million. The decline in interest income on loans is primarily the result of a $129.6 million decrease in average loans outstanding during the year. Interest income on investments increased due to a rise in the average balance of investments outstanding, but was partially offset by a decline in the yield on the investment portfolio. Interest expense decreased $5.0 million, or 37%, to $8.5 million in 2011 compared to $13.5 million in 2010. The decrease in interest expense is primarily a result of decreases in interest rates paid, in conjunction with a decrease in the average balance of interest bearing liabilities. The decrease in interest rates was driven primarily by management's plan to reduce the reliance placed on higher rate certificates of deposit. Noninterest income was $3.4 million in 2011 as compared to $2.4 million in 2010. The change is due largely to the gain on the sale of investment securities of $1.1 million recorded in 2011; there were no such sales in 2010. Noninterest expense for 2011 totaled $31.2 million, which represents a decrease of $720,000, or 2%, less than the prior year. The decrease in noninterest expense is primarily a result of a $1.4 million decrease in costs relating to other real estate operations, and a $1.0 million decrease in regulatory assessments. In addition, there were decreases of $801,000 and $624,000 in salaries and benefits and occupancy and equipment expenses. These were partially offset by $3.0 million in restructuring charges and asset disposals related to the reduction in force and branch closings. 48 Table of Contents The following are measurements relating to Bancorp s earnings: 2011 2010 2009 Loss on average assets (2.29 %) (1.89 %) (2.52 %) Loss on average equity (27.64 %) (37.88 %) (46.02 %) Dividend payout ratio N / A N / A N / A Average equity to average assets 8.28 % 4.98 % 5.47 % Loss per share $ (0.40 ) $ (1.30 ) $ (5.02 ) Interest income and expense Bancorp s net interest income decreased $2.3 million, or 10%, to $19.8 million in 2011 from $22.1 million in 2010. Bancorp s interest income decreased by $7.3 million, or 20%, from $35.6 million in 2010 to $28.3 million in 2011 due to a decrease in average earning assets of $130.6 million, or 17%. Average loans outstanding decreased $129.6 million, or 21%. The income on investments increased $439,000 due to the rise in the average balance of investments outstanding, but was partially offset by lower yields during 2011. This resulted in an increase in interest income of approximately $503,000 due to volume, and a decrease of $64,000 related to the change in interest rates. The average balances of federal funds sold and short-term investments decreased $18.9 million to $62.5 million for 2011 as compared to $81.4 million for 2010 due to a reduction in excess liquidity on the balance sheet. Total average interest bearing liabilities decreased by $164.5 million, or 23%. Average balances of certificates of deposit decreased $121.6 million, or 26%. The decrease in certificates of deposit accounts is attributable to customers refraining from locking into long-term rates in the current lower rate environment and lower offered rates on new certificates of deposit. Average money market accounts decreased $41.5 million, or 38%. Average balances in savings accounts decreased approximately $2.9 million. Total interest expense decreased $5.0 million, or 37%, from $13.5 million in 2010 to $8.5 million in 2011. Interest expense on certificates of deposit decreased $3.8 million and the cost of funds for this portfolio decreased from 2.09% in 2010 to 1.73% in 2011. This is primarily the result of the maturity of higher rate certificates of deposit due to lower interest rates being paid on current renewals. The average balances outstanding of FHLB advances remained unchanged from 2010, resulting in interest expense of $1.6 million, which is $67,000 less than 2010. The cost of funds for these advances decreased from 3.40% in 2010 to 3.26% in 2011 due to the restructuring that took place in the fourth quarter. The decrease in the index to which the junior subordinated debt interest rate is tied resulted in a decline in interest expense of approximately $2,000, or less than 1%. Management regularly reviews loan and deposit rates and attempts to price Bancorp s products competitively. Bancorp tracks its mix of asset/liability maturities and strives to maintain a reasonable match. Performance ratios are reviewed monthly by management and the Board and are used to set strategies. 49 Table of Contents Provision for loan losses Based on management s most recent evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses, the provision for loan losses charged to operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 of $7.5 million, of which $6.0 million related to loans transferred to held-for-sale in connection with bulk loan sale, represents a decrease of $250,000 when compared to the provision of $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. The decreased provision for the current year was based on the lower level of non-accrual and past due loans, and management s assessment of the impact that changes in the national, regional and local economic and business conditions have had on the Bank s loan portfolio. Additionally, the total loan portfolio has decreased by 6.2% in 2011. There continues to be major displacement in the national and global credit markets. The secondary mortgage market continues to be impacted by economic events. These macro issues have impacted local real estate markets. It appears the local real estate prices have stabilized and market activity has increased. The Bank continues to maintain conservative underwriting standards including low loan to value ratio guidelines. An analysis of the changes in the allowance for loan losses is presented under the discussion entitled Allowance for Loan Losses. Non-interest income Non-interest income increased by $1.1 million from $2.4 million in 2010 to $3.4 million in 2011. The increase is primarily due to the gain on the sale of investment securities of approximately $1.1 million recorded in 2011; there were no such sales in 2010. There was also higher revenue from the Bank-owned life insurance of $89,000 and a gain recognized on sale of loan of $80,000. These were partially offset by a reduction in activity based deposit fees and service charges of $210,000, a decrease in loan originations and processing fees of $77,000, and a decrease in mortgage brokerage referral fee income of $32,000. Non-interest expense Non-interest expense decreased $720,000, or 2%, from $31.9 million in 2010 to $31.2 million in 2011. Other real estate operations expenses decreased $1.4 million to $878,000 for the year ended December 31, 2011 from $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2010. This decrease is largely due to the sale of eight OREO properties for $19.6 million; four of which were included in the March 2011 bulk sale of non-performing assets with an aggregate carrying value of $14.4 million. This resulted in net gains on the sale of OREO properties of $194,000. Net carrying costs were $906,000 and there was one write-down of $166,000 during 2011. Regulatory assessments decreased $1.0 million from $3.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 to $2.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, due to a lower assessment base. Salaries and benefits decreased $801,000, or 6%, in 2011 compared to 2010, and occupancy and equipment expenses decreased $624,000, or 11%, from $5.6 million in 2010 to $4.8 million in 2011. This primarily reflects lower salaries, lease and depreciation expense as a result of the $3.0 million in restructuring and asset disposal charges related to the reduction in force and branch closings. 50 Table of Contents Income Taxes As of December 31, 2011, Bancorp maintained a full valuation allowance of $14.4 million against the net deferred tax asset. The possibility of further loan losses and higher cost levels associated with carrying nonperforming assets, coupled with Bancorp s losses beginning in the third quarter of 2008, creates sufficient uncertainty regarding the Company s ability to realize these deferred tax assets. In future periods, if it becomes more likely that these assets can be utilized, Bancorp may reverse some or all of the valuation allowance. Evidence to substantiate reversing the allowance would include sustained profitability. LIQUIDITY Bancorp s liquidity position was 18% at December 31, 2012 and 2011. The liquidity ratio is defined as the percentage of liquid assets to total assets. The following categories of assets as described in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets are considered liquid assets: cash and due from banks, federal funds sold, short-term investments and available-for-sale securities. Liquidity is a measure of Bancorp s ability to generate adequate cash to meet financial obligations. The principal cash requirements of a financial institution are to cover increases in its loan portfolio and downward fluctuations in deposit accounts. Management believes Bancorp s short-term assets provide sufficient liquidity to satisfy loan demand, cover potential fluctuations in deposit accounts and to meet other anticipated cash requirements. In addition, the Company has historically had a high retention rate of maturing certificates of deposit. The Company has the ability to modify the rate of retention by adjusting rates and terms on various deposit products. At December 31, 2012, cash and cash equivalents and securities classified as available-for-sale were $71.0 million and $41.7 million, respectively. In addition to Federal Home Loan Bank advances outstanding at December 31, 2012, the Bank had the ability to borrow an additional $67.0 million from the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, which included a $2.0 million overnight line of credit. At December 31, 2012 the Bank had $50.0 million in Federal Home Loan Bank advances, none of which were under the overnight line of credit. The Bank also has the ability to borrow from the Federal Reserve Bank. 51 Table of Contents The following table presents Bancorp s contractual obligations as of December 31, 2012: Less than One to Three to Over five Total one year three years five years years Certificates of deposit $ 281,752,975 $ 203,941,972 $ 63,642,103 $ 14,159,678 $ 9,222 Junior subordinated debt owed to unconsolidated trust 8,248,000 8,248,000 FHLB Advances 50,000,000 40,000,000 10,000,000 Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 7,000,000 7,000,000 Operating lease obligations 11,802,569 2,396,941 3,875,509 1,612,617 3,917,502 Total contractual obligations $ 358,803,544 $ 206,338,913 $ 107,517,612 $ 15,772,295 $ 29,174,724 OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The following table presents Bancorp s off-balance sheet commitments as of December 31, 2012. These commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee by the borrower. Since these commitments could expire without being drawn upon or are contingent upon the customer adhering to the terms of the agreements, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. Future loan commitments $ 16,601,019 Home equity lines of credit 30,044,312 Unused lines of credit 39,652,231 Undisbursed construction loans 3,233,322 Financial standby letters of credit 7,000 Total commitments $ 89,537,884 52 Table of Contents REGULATORY CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS The Company s and the Bank s actual capital amounts and ratios at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were: To Be Well Capitalized Under For Capital Prompt Corrective Actual Adequacy Purposes Action Provisions 2012 Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio The Company: Total Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) $ 63,253 15.64 % $ 49,447 8.00 % $ N/A N/A Tier 1 Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) 58,186 14.39 % 24,724 4.00 % N/A N/A Tier 1 Capital (to Average Assets) 58,186 9.33 % 24,948 4.00 % N/A N/A The Bank: Total Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) $ 61,908 15.31 % $ 49,447 8.00 % $ 61,808 10.00 % Tier 1 Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) 56,840 14.05 % 24,723 4.00 % 37,085 6.00 % Tier 1 Capital (to Average Assets) 56,840 9.11 % 24,952 4.00 % 31,190 5.00 % To Be Well Capitalized Under For Capital Prompt Corrective Actual Adequacy Purposes Action Provisions 2011 Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio The Company: Total Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) $ 63,658 15.22 % $ 33,469 8.00 % $ N/A N/A Tier 1 Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) 58,377 13.95 % 16,735 4.00 % N/A N/A Tier 1 Capital (to Average Assets) 58,377 9.01 % 25,931 4.00 % N/A N/A The Bank: Total Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) $ 61,616 14.75 % $ 33,445 8.00 % $ 41,806 10.00 % Tier 1 Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) 56,339 13.48 % 16,722 4.00 % 25,084 6.00 % Tier 1 Capital (to Average Assets) 56,339 8.69 % 25,929 4.00 % 32,411 5.00 % Capital adequacy is one of the most important factors used to determine the safety and soundness of individual banks and the banking system. Under the regulatory framework for prompt correction action, to be considered well capitalized, an institution must generally have a leverage capital ratio of at least 5%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6% and a total risk-based capital ratio of at least 10%. However, the OCC has the discretion to require increased capital levels. Management continuously assesses the adequacy of the Bank s capital with the goal to maintain a well capitalized classification. 53 Table of Contents °Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk MARKET RISK Market risk is defined as the sensitivity of income to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, commodity prices and other market-driven rates or prices. Based upon the nature of Bancorp s business, market risk is primarily limited to interest rate risk, which is the impact that changing interest rates have on current and future earnings. Qualitative Aspects of Market Risk Bancorp s goal is to maximize long term profitability while minimizing its exposure to interest rate fluctuations. The first priority is to structure and price Bancorp s assets and liabilities to maintain an acceptable interest rate spread while reducing the net effect of changes in interest rates. In order to accomplish this, the focus is on maintaining a proper balance between the timing and volume of assets and liabilities re-pricing within the balance sheet. One method of achieving this balance is to originate variable rate loans for the portfolio and purchase short term investments to offset the increasing short term re-pricing of the liability side of the balance sheet. In fact, a number of the interest-bearing deposit products have no contractual maturity. Therefore, deposit balances may run off unexpectedly due to changing market conditions. Additionally, loans and investments with longer term rate adjustment frequencies are matched against longer term deposits and borrowings when possible to lock in a desirable spread. The exposure to interest rate risk is monitored by the Management Asset and Liability Committee consisting of senior management personnel. The Committee meets on a monthly basis, but may convene more frequently as conditions dictate. The Committee reviews the interrelationships within the balance sheet to maximize net interest income within acceptable levels of risk. This Committee reports to the Board of Directors on a monthly basis regarding its activities. In addition to the Management Asset Liability Committee, there is a Board Asset and Liability Committee ( ALCO ), which meets quarterly. ALCO monitors the interest rate risk analyses, reviews investment transactions during the period and determines compliance with Bank policies. Quantitative Aspects of Market Risk Management analyzes Bancorp s interest rate sensitivity position to manage the risk associated with interest rate movements through the use of interest income simulation and GAP analysis. The matching of assets and liabilities may be analyzed by examining the extent to which such assets and liabilities are interest sensitive. An asset or liability is said to be interest sensitive within a specific time period if it will mature or reprice within that time period. Management s goal is to manage asset and liability positions to moderate the effects of interest rate fluctuations on net interest income. Interest income simulations are completed quarterly and presented to ALCO. The simulations provide an estimate of the impact of changes in interest rates on net interest income under a range of assumptions. Changes to these assumptions can significantly affect the results of the simulations. The simulation incorporates assumptions regarding the potential timing in the repricing of certain assets and liabilities when market rates change and the changes in spreads between different market rates. 54 Table of Contents Simulation analysis is only an estimate of Bancorp s interest rate risk exposure at a particular point in time. Management regularly reviews the potential effect changes in interest rates could have on the repayment of rate sensitive assets and funding requirements of rate sensitive liabilities. The table below sets forth examples of changes in estimated net interest income and the estimated net portfolio value based on projected scenarios of interest rate increases and decreases. The analyses indicate the rate risk embedded in Bancorp s portfolio at the dates indicated should all interest rates instantaneously rise or fall. The results of these changes are added to or subtracted from the base case; however, there are certain limitations to these types of analyses. Rate changes are rarely instantaneous and these analyses may also overstate the impact of short-term repricings. As a result of the historically low interest rate environment, the calculated effects of the 100 and 200 basis point downward shocks cannot absolutely reflect the risk to earnings and equity since the interest rates on certain balance sheet items have approached their minimums, and, therefore, it is not possible for the analyses to fully measure the entire impact of these downward shocks. Net Interest Income and Economic Value Summary Performance December 31, 2012 Net Interest Income Net Portfolio Value Projected Interest Estimated $ Change % Change Estimated $ Change % Change Rate Scenario Value from Base from Base Value from Base from Base +200 21,113 2,434 13.03 % 46,403 (8,067 ) -14.81 % +100 20,011 1,332 7.13 % 50,576 (3,894 ) -7.15 % BASE 18,679 54,470 -100 18,873 194 1.04 % 58,725 4,255 7.81 % -200 18,819 140 0.75 % 69,726 15,256 28.01 % December 31, 2011 Net Interest Income Net Portfolio Value Projected Interest Estimated $ Change % Change Estimated $ Change % Change Rate Scenario Value from Base from Base Value from Base from Base +200 20,987 1,169 5.90 % 48,458 (9,194 ) -15.95 % +100 20,547 729 3.68 % 53,555 (4,097 ) -7.11 % BASE 19,818 57,652 -100 20,504 686 3.46 % 61,109 3,457 6.00 % -200 20,604 786 3.97 % 69,915 12,263 21.27 % 55 Table of Contents Impact of Inflation and Changing Prices Bancorp s financial statements have been prepared in terms of historical dollars, without considering changes in relative purchasing power of money over time due to inflation. Unlike most industrial companies, virtually all of the assets and liabilities of a financial institution are monetary in nature. As a result, interest rates have a more significant impact on a financial institution s performance than the effect of general levels of inflation. Interest rates do not necessarily move in the same direction or in the same magnitude as the prices of goods and services. Notwithstanding this, inflation can directly affect the value of loan collateral, in particular, real estate. Inflation, or disinflation, could significantly affect Bancorp s earnings in future periods. 56 Table of Contents °Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data The consolidated balance sheets of Bancorp as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, shareholders equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2012, December 31, 2011 and December 31, 2010, together with the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firms thereon are included as part of this Form 10-K in the Financial Report following page 68 hereof. 57 Table of Contents The following table presents selected quarterly financial information (unaudited): First Second Third Fourth Quarter Quarter Quarter Quarter 2012: Interest income $ 7,186,581 $ 6,310,430 $ 5,983,118 $ 5,736,388 Interest expense 2,027,174 1,927,365 1,750,642 1,714,271 Net interest income 5,159,407 4,383,065 4,232,476 4,022,117 Provision for loan losses (845,402 ) (1,713,425 ) 179,604 Non-interest income 749,997 455,100 1,456,712 611,687 Non-interest expense 6,209,276 6,206,308 5,671,163 5,899,201 Income (loss) before income taxes 545,530 345,282 18,025 (1,445,001 ) Provision for income taxes Net income (loss) $ 545,530 $ 345,282 $ 18,025 $ (1,445,001 ) Net income (loss) per common share: Basic and diluted $ 0.01 $ 0.01 $ $ (0.03 ) 2011: Interest income $ 7,366,561 $ 7,166,807 $ 6,907,992 $ 6,890,949 Interest expense 2,430,704 2,125,420 1,961,424 1,992,895 Net interest income 4,935,857 5,041,387 4,946,568 4,898,054 Provision for loan losses 6,981,629 1,482,798 (1,000,000 ) Non-interest income 582,850 710,313 1,281,480 836,834 Non-interest expense 7,519,676 11,444,270 5,972,589 6,291,867 (Loss) income before income taxes (8,982,598 ) (7,175,368 ) 255,459 443,021 Provision for income taxes Net (loss) income $ (8,982,598 ) $ (7,175,368 ) $ 255,459 $ 443,021 Net (loss) income per common share: Basic and diluted $ (0.23 ) $ (0.19 ) $ 0.01 $ 0.01 58 Table of Contents °Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure None. °Item 9A. Controls and Procedures Based on an evaluation of the effectiveness of Bancorp s disclosure controls and procedures performed by Bancorp s management, with the participation of Bancorp s Chief Executive Officer and its Chief Financial Officer as of the end of the period covered by this report, Bancorp s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Bancorp s disclosure controls and procedures have been effective. As used herein, disclosure controls and procedures mean controls and other procedures of Bancorp that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Bancorp in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Commission s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by Bancorp in the reports that it files or submits under the Securities Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to Bancorp s management, including its principal executive, and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. There were no changes in Bancorp s internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation described in the preceding paragraph that occurred during Bancorp s fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Bancorp s internal controls over financial reporting. 59 Table of Contents °Item 9B. Other Information Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting The management of Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. (the Company ) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed so as to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and deployment of the assets of the Company and also provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded in a timely manner to enable the preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America and that receipts and disbursements of the Company are made only in compliance with the authorizations established by management and the directors of the Company, and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. In addition, projections of any evaluations of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and/or procedures may deteriorate. Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on the framework set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ) in Internal Control Integrated Framework . Based on that assessment, management concluded that as of December 31, 2012, the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework . The effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, has been audited by KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing on page 61, which expresses an unqualified opinion of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. 60 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Patriot National Bancorp, Inc.: We have audited Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. and subsidiary s (the Company) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 61 Table of Contents We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. and subsidiary as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, shareholders equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012, and our report dated March 22, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. KPMG LLP Stamford, Connecticut March 22, 2013 62 Table of Contents PART III °Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance The information required by Items 401, 405, 406 and 407 (c)(3); (d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K is incorporated into this Form 10-K by reference to Bancorp s definitive proxy statement (the Definitive Proxy Statement ) for its 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be filed within 120 days following December 31, 2012. The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics for its senior financial officers. The information required by Item 406 is contained in Exhibit 14 to this Form 10-K. A copy of this Code of Ethics will be provided to any person so requesting by writing to Patriot National Bancorp, Inc., 900 Bedford Street, Stamford, Connecticut 06901, Attn: William C. Gray, Chief Financial Officer. °Item 11. Executive Compensation The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K is incorporated into this Form 10-K by reference to the Definitive Proxy Statement. °Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Shareholder Matters The information required by Item 201(d) and Item 403 of Regulation S-K is incorporated into this Form 10-K by reference to the Definitive Proxy Statement. °Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence The information required by Items 404 and 407(a) of Regulation S-K is incorporated into this Form 10-K by reference to the Definitive Proxy Statement. °Item 14. Principal Accountant Fees and Services The information required by Item 9(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation S-K is incorporated into this Form 10-K by reference to the Definitive Proxy Statement. 63 Table of Contents Part IV °Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules (a) Exhibits Exhibit No. Description 2 Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of June 28, 1999 between Bancorp and the Bank (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Bancorp s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 1, 1999 (Commission File No. 000-29599)). 2.1 Securities Purchase Agreement by and among Patriot National Bancorp, Inc., Patriot National Bank and PNBK Holdings LLC dated as of December 16, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Bancorp s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 17, 2009). 2.2 Amendment to Securities Purchase Agreement by and among Patriot National Bancorp, Inc., Patriot National Bank and PNBK Holdings LLC dated as of May 3, 2010 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to Bancorp s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 4, 2010). 3(i) Certificate of Incorporation of Bancorp, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to Bancorp s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 1, 1999 (Commission File No. 000-29599)). 3(i)(A) Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. dated July 16, 2004 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i)(A) to Bancorp's Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended December 31, 2004 (Commission File No. 000-29599)). 3(i)(B) Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. dated June 15, 2006 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i)(B) to Bancorp's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006 (Commission File No. 000-29599)). 3(i)(C) Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(i) to Bancorp s current report Form 8-K dated October 21, 2010. 3(ii) Amended and Restated By-laws of Bancorp (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) to Bancorp s Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 1, 2010 (Commission File No. 000-29599)). 64 Table of Contents Exhibit No. Description 10(a)(1) 2001 Stock Appreciation Rights Plan of Bancorp (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(1) to Bancorp s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended December 31, 2001 (Commission File No. 000-29599)). 10(a)(2) 2012 Stock Plan of Bancorp (incorporated by reference from Annex A to the Proxy Statement on Form 14C filed November 1, 2011. 10(a)(6) Change of Control Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2007 among Robert F. O Connell and Patriot National Bank and Bancorp (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(6) to Bancorp's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 (Commission File No. 000-29599)). 10(a)(14) Change of Control Agreement, dated as of January 1, 2007 among Philip W. Wolford, Patriot National Bank and Bancorp (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(14) to Bancorp's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 (Commission File No. 000-29599)). 10(a)(15) Formal Written Agreement between Patriot National Bank and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(15) to Bancorp s Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 9, 2009 (Commission File No. 000-29599)). 10(a)(16) Formal Written Agreement between Patriot National Bank and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(16) to Bancorp s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 (Commission File No. 000-29599)). 10(a)(17) Financial Services Agreement dated November 8, 2011 of Bancorp (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a)(20) on the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q dated November 10, 2011. 65 Table of Contents Exhibit No. Description 14 Code of Conduct for Senior Financial Officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14 to Bancorp s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended December 31, 2004 (Commission File No. 000-29599)). 21 Subsidiaries of Bancorp (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 21 to Bancorp s Annual Report on Form 10-KSB for the year ended December 31, 1999 (Commission File No. 000-29599)). 23.1 Consent of KPMG LLP 31(1) Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer 31(2) Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer 32 Section 1350 Certification 101.INS# XBRL Instance Document 101.SCH# XBRL Schema Document 101.CAL# XBRL Calculation Linkbase Document 101.LAB# XBRL Labels Linkbase Document 101.PRE# XBRL Presentation Linkbase Document 101.DEF# XBRL Definition Linkbase Document The exhibits marked with the section symbol (#) are interactive data files. Pursuant to Rule 406T of Regulations S-T, these interactive data files (i) are not deemed filed or part of a registration statement of prospectus for purposes of Sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, are not deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, irrespective of any general incorporation language included in any such filings, and otherwise are not subject to liability under these sections; and (ii) are deemed to have complied with Rule 405 of Regulations S-T ( Rule 405 ) and are not subject to liability under the anti-fraud provisions of the Section 17(a)(1) of the Securities Act of 1933, Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or under any other liability provision if we have made a good faith attempt to comply with Rule 405 and, after we become aware that the interactive data files fail to comply with Rule 405, we promptly amend the interactive data files. 66 Table of Contents SIGNATURES In accordance with Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. (Registrant) By: /s/ Kenneth T. Neilson Name: Kenneth T. Neilson Title: Chief Executive Officer By: /s/ Christopher D. Maher Name: Christopher D. Maher Title: Former Chief Executive Officer Date: March 22, 2013 In accordance with the Exchange Act, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in capacities and on the dates indicated. /s/ Kenneth T. Neilson March 22, 2013 Kenneth T. Neilson President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Date /s/ Christopher D. Maher March 22, 2013 Christopher D. Maher Former President, Chief Executive Officer and Director Date /s/ William C. Gray March 22, 2013 William C. Gray Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Date /s/ Michael A. Carrazza March 22, 2013 Michael A. Carrazza Chairman of the Board Date 67 Table of Contents Form 10 K Signatures continued /s/ Edward Constantino March 22, 2013 Edward Constantino Director Date /s/ Raymond Smyth March 22, 2013 Raymond Smyth Director Date /s/ Emile Van den Bol March 22, 2013 Emile Van den Bol Director Date /s/ Michael Weinbaum March 22, 2013 Michael Weinbaum Director Date 68 Table of Contents Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm The Board of Directors and Shareholders Patriot National Bancorp, Inc.: We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. and subsidiary (the Company) as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive income, shareholders equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. and subsidiary as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2012, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated March 22, 2013 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. KPMG LLP Stamford, Connecticut March 22, 2013 1 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS December 31, 2012 and 2011 2012 2011 ASSETS Cash and due from banks (Note 2): Noninterest bearing deposits and cash $ 2,736,486 $ 4,241,552 Interest bearing deposits 67,567,155 50,474,257 Short-term investments 710,766 709,567 Total cash and cash equivalents 71,014,407 55,425,376 Securities Available for sale securities, at fair value (Note 3) 41,719,320 66,469,972 Other Investments 3,500,000 3,500,000 Federal Reserve Bank stock, at cost 1,730,200 1,707,000 Federal Home Loan Bank stock, at cost (Note 8) 4,343,800 4,508,300 Total securities 51,293,320 76,185,272 Loans receivable (net of allowance for loan losses: 2012: $6,015,636 2011: $9,384,672) (Notes 4 and 18) 458,793,536 501,227,297 Loans held for sale 1,527,299 250,000 Accrued interest and dividends receivable 1,894,292 2,453,179 Premises and equipment, net (Notes 5 and 9) 4,288,372 4,108,318 Cash surrender value of life insurance (Note 12) 21,501,703 20,984,604 Other real estate owned (Note 6) 4,873,844 2,762,640 Deferred tax asset (Note 10) Other assets (Note 11) 2,580,118 2,419,592 Other branch related assets held for sale 88,244 Total assets $ 617,855,135 $ 665,816,278 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Liabilities Deposits (Notes 7 and 18): Noninterest bearing deposits $ 61,459,959 $ 65,613,374 Interest bearing deposits 411,117,558 479,296,019 Deposits held for sale 24,705,381 Total deposits 497,282,898 544,909,393 Borrowings (Note 8) Repurchase agreements 7,000,000 7,000,000 Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings 50,000,000 50,000,000 Total borrowings 57,000,000 57,000,000 Junior subordinated debt owed to unconsolidated trust (Note 8) 8,248,000 8,248,000 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 5,756,439 5,109,225 Total liabilities 568,287,337 615,266,618 Commitments and Contingencies (Notes 8, 9 and 15) Shareholders equity (Notes 13 and 17) Preferred stock, no par value; 1,000,000 shares authorized, no shares issued and outstanding Common stock, $.01 par value, 100,000,000 shares authorized; 2012: 38,491,819 shares issued; 38,480,114 shares outstanding. 2011: 38,374,432 shares issued; 38,362,727 shares outstanding 384,918 383,744 Additional paid-in capital 105,355,680 105,050,433 Accumulated deficit (55,394,995 ) (54,858,831 ) Less: Treasury stock, at cost: 2012 and 2011 11,705 shares (160,025 ) (160,025 ) Accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income (617,780 ) 134,339 Total shareholders equity 49,567,798 50,549,660 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 617,855,135 $ 665,816,278 See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 2 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 2012 2011 2010 Interest and Dividend Income Interest and fees on loans $ 23,482,365 $ 25,957,563 $ 33,615,884 Interest on investment securities 1,507,614 1,990,248 1,522,873 Dividends on investment securities 128,297 240,025 267,790 Interest on federal funds sold 6,875 17,036 Other interest income 98,241 137,598 185,308 Total interest and dividend income 25,216,517 28,332,309 35,608,891 Interest Expense Interest on deposits 5,351,477 6,283,578 11,178,793 Interest on Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings 1,458,894 1,632,378 1,698,771 Interest on subordinated debt 299,683 285,936 288,428 Interest on other borrowings 309,398 308,551 308,551 Total interest expense 7,419,452 8,510,443 13,474,543 Net interest income 17,797,065 19,821,866 22,134,348 Provision for Loan Losses (Note 4) (2,379,223 ) 7,464,427 7,714,000 Net interest income after provision for loan losses 20,176,288 12,357,439 14,420,348 Non-interest Income Mortgage banking activity 163,804 58,440 90,889 Loan application, inspection and processing fees 101,339 78,613 155,494 Fees and service charges 856,604 964,796 1,174,361 Gain on sale of loans 336,274 79,729 Net gain on sale of investment securities 910,591 1,109,305 Earnings on cash surrender value of life insurance 517,099 636,272 546,910 Other income 387,785 484,322 386,586 Total non-interest income 3,273,496 3,411,477 2,354,240 Non-interest Expense Salaries and benefits (Notes 9,13 and 15) 10,593,018 12,395,120 13,195,673 Occupancy and equipment expense 4,419,260 4,931,152 5,555,240 Data processing expense 1,468,551 1,286,170 1,456,873 Advertising and promotional expense 86,338 573,495 312,621 Professional and other outside services 2,601,133 3,406,640 3,067,221 Loan administration and processing expense 137,192 271,025 303,562 Regulatory assessments 1,724,224 1,992,865 2,957,010 Insurance expense 471,057 869,479 936,035 Other real estate operations (Note 6) (58,044 ) 877,969 2,286,948 Material and communications 503,513 684,778 804,623 Restructuring charges and asset disposals (Note 21) 939,492 2,986,441 Other operating expense 1,100,214 953,268 1,072,727 Total non-interest expense 23,985,948 31,228,402 31,948,533 Loss before income taxes (536,164 ) (15,459,486 ) (15,173,945 ) Provision for Income Taxes (Note 10) (225,000 ) Net loss $ (536,164 ) $ (15,459,486 ) $ (15,398,945 ) Loss per share (Note 14) $ (0.01 ) $ (0.40 ) $ (1.30 ) Dividends per share $ $ $ See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 3 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 2012 2011 2010 Net loss $ (536,164 ) $ (15,459,486 ) $ (15,398,945 ) Other comprehensive (loss) income: (Note 19) Unrealized holding (losses) gains on securities, net of taxes: Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during the period 47,204 (475,273 ) 476,044 Less reclassification adjustment for net gains included in net income (799,323 ) (687,769 ) Total (752,119 ) (1,163,042 ) 476,044 Comprehensive loss $ (1,288,283 ) $ (16,622,528 ) $ (14,922,901 ) See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 4 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Number of Outstanding Shares Common Stock Additional Paid-in Capital Accumulated Deficit Treasury Stock Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Total Balance, December 31, 2009 4,762,727 $ 9,548,864 $ 49,651,534 $ (24,000,400 ) $ (160,025 ) $ 821,337 $ 35,861,310 Comprehensive loss Net loss (15,398,945 ) (15,398,945 ) Unrealized holding gain on available for sale securities, net of taxes (Note 19) 476,044 476,044 Total comprehensive loss (14,922,901 ) Exchange of capital stock (9,501,120 ) 9,501,120 Capital stock issued in acquisition (Note 14) 33,600,000 336,000 45,897,779 46,233,779 Balance, December 31, 2010 38,362,727 383,744 105,050,433 (39,399,345 ) (160,025 ) 1,297,381 67,172,188 Comprehensive loss Net loss (15,459,486 ) (15,459,486 ) Unrealized holding loss on available for sale securities, net of taxes (Note 19) (1,163,042 ) (1,163,042 ) Total comprehensive loss (16,622,528 ) Balance, December 31, 2011 38,362,727 383,744 105,050,433 (54,858,831 ) (160,025 ) 134,339 50,549,660 Comprehensive loss Net loss (536,164 ) (536,164 ) Unrealized holding loss on available for sale securities, net of taxes (Note 19) (752,119 ) (752,119 ) Total comprehensive loss (1,288,283 ) Share-based compensation expense 306,421 306,421 Issuance of restricted stock 117,387 1,174 (1,174 ) Balance, December 31, 2012 38,480,114 $ 384,918 $ 105,355,680 $ (55,394,995 ) $ (160,025 ) $ (617,780 ) $ 49,567,798 See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 5 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 2012 2011 2010 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net loss $ (536,164 ) $ (15,459,486 ) $ (15,398,945 ) Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash used in operating activities Restructuring charges and asset impairments (63,680 ) 951,659 Amortization and accretion of investment premiums and discounts, net 310,830 409,511 401,949 Amortization and accretion of purchase loan premiums and discounts, net 11,477 11,301 110,433 Amortization of core deposit intangible 6,962 15,012 15,900 Provision for loan losses (2,379,223 ) 7,464,427 7,714,000 Net gain on sale of investment securities (910,591 ) (1,109,305 ) Gain on sale of loans (336,274 ) (79,729 ) Gain on sale of mortgage loans (83,823 ) Originations of mortgage loans held for sale (5,206,497 ) Proceeds from sales of mortgage loans held for sale 3,763,021 Loss on disposal of fixed assets 16,406 4,644 (Gain) loss on sale of other real estate owned (185,143 ) (193,786 ) 164,494 Impairment write-down on other real estate owned 165,764 1,084,023 Depreciation and amortization of premises and equipment 1,215,774 1,272,660 1,498,334 Share-based compensation expense 306,421 Earnings on cash surrender value of life insurance (517,099 ) (636,272 ) (546,910 ) Change in assets and liabilities: Decrease (increase) in net deferred loan costs 183,914 (472,515 ) (288,790 ) Decrease in accrued interest and dividends receivable 558,887 59,007 724,066 (Increase) decrease in other assets (167,488 ) 6,276,762 799,119 Increase in accrued expenses and other liabilities 858,272 344,279 830,750 Net cash used in operating activities (3,154,018 ) (976,067 ) (2,891,577 ) Cash Flows from Investing Activities Purchases of available for sale securities (44,485,312 ) (65,459,630 ) (15,162,500 ) Purchases of other investments (3,500,000 ) Proceeds from sale of available for sale securities 45,226,033 26,349,070 Proceeds from redemptions of available for sale securities 15,999,814 15,000,000 Principal repayments on available for sale securities 7,775,420 12,029,209 8,793,644 Purchase of Federal Reserve Bank stock (48,850 ) (1,174,100 ) Proceeds from repurchase of excess stock by the Federal Reserve Bank 25,650 659,100 647,650 Proceeds from repurchase of excess stock by the Federal Home Loan Bank 164,500 Proceeds from sale of loans 99,737,524 55,089,794 Net (increase) decrease in loans (60,645,644 ) (34,363,332 ) 93,035,888 Purchase of other real estate owned (481,165 ) Capital improvements to other real estate owned (111,463 ) (20,000 ) (266,449 ) Proceeds from sale of other real estate owned 3,347,391 19,579,304 11,786,337 Purchases of premises and equipment, net (615,519 ) (685,029 ) (173,083 ) Net cash provided by investing activities 66,369,544 11,523,221 110,161,487 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Net increase (decrease) in demand, savings and money market deposits 13,234,388 (17,785,483 ) (33,040,482 ) Net decrease in time certificates of deposit (60,860,883 ) (84,113,953 ) (81,484,981 ) Net proceeds from issuance of common stock in acquisition 46,233,779 Net cash used in financing activities (47,626,495 ) (101,899,436 ) (68,291,684 ) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 15,589,031 (91,352,282 ) 38,978,226 6 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS, Continued Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 2012 2011 2010 Cash and cash equivalents at Beginning of year 55,425,376 146,777,658 107,799,432 End of year $ 71,014,407 $ 55,425,376 $ 146,777,658 Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information Interest paid $ 7,127,255 $ 8,290,544 $ 13,250,797 Income taxes paid $ 10,319 $ 10,534 $ 2,080 Supplemental Disclosure of Noncash Investing and Financing Activities Unrealized holding (losses) gains on available for sale securities arising during the period $ (834,456 ) $ (1,875,874 ) $ 767,812 Transfer of loans to other real estate owned $ 6,111,989 $ 5,403,970 $ 10,103,199 Transfer of other real estate owned to premises and equipment $ 950,000 $ $ Transfer of loans to held for sale $ $ 250,000 $ Transfer of deposits to held for sale $ 24,705,381 $ $ Transfer of branch assets held for sale $ 88,244 $ $ See Accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 7 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 1. Nature of Operations and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. (the Company ), a Connecticut corporation, is a bank holding company that was organized in 1999. On December 1, 1999, all the issued and outstanding shares of Patriot National Bank (the Bank ) were converted into Company common stock and the Bank became a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The Bank is a nationally chartered commercial bank whose deposits are insured under the Bank Insurance Fund, which is administered by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Bank provides a full range of banking services to commercial and consumer customers through its main office in Stamford, Connecticut, eight other branch offices in Connecticut and two branch offices in New York. The Bank s customers are concentrated in Fairfield and New Haven Counties in Connecticut and Westchester County, New York City and Long Island, New York. The Bank also conducts mortgage brokerage operations through a loan production office in Stamford, Connecticut. On March 11, 2003, the Company formed Patriot National Statutory Trust I (the Trust ) for the purpose of issuing trust preferred securities and investing the proceeds in subordinated debentures issued by the Company, and on March 26, 2003, the first series of trust preferred securities were issued. In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the Trust is not included in the Company s consolidated financial statements. The following is a summary of the Company s significant accounting policies: Significant group concentrations of credit risk Most of the Company s activities are with customers located within Fairfield and New Haven Counties in Connecticut and Westchester County, New York City and Long Island, New York. Note 3 discusses the types of securities in which the Company invests. Note 4 discusses the types of lending in which the Company engages. The Company does not have any significant concentrations to any one industry or customer; however, the Company s investment in life insurance is in a separate account of a single insurance carrier. Principles of consolidation and basis of financial statement presentation The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned subsidiary, the Bank, and the Bank s wholly owned subsidiary, PinPat Acquisition Corporation, and have been prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities, as of the balance sheet date and reported amounts of revenues and expenses for the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Material estimates that are particularly susceptible to significant change in the near term relate to the determination of the allowance for loan losses, the valuation of investment securities, the realization of deferred tax assets, and the evaluation of investment securities for impairment. Certain prior year balances have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. 8 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and due from banks, federal funds sold and short-term investments are recognized as cash equivalents in the consolidated balance sheets. Federal funds sold generally mature in one day. For purposes of reporting cash flows, the Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. The Company maintains amounts due from banks and federal funds sold which, at times, may exceed federally insured limits. The Company has not experienced any losses from such concentrations. The short-term investments represent an investment in a money market mutual fund of a single issuer. Investments in debt and marketable equity securities Management determines the appropriate classification of securities at the date individual investment securities are acquired, and the appropriateness of such classification is reassessed at each balance sheet date. The Bank is required to maintain an investment in capital stock of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston ( FHLB ), as collateral, in an amount equal to a percentage of its outstanding mortgage loans and contracts secured by residential properties, including mortgage-backed securities. The stock is purchased from and redeemed by the FHLB based upon its $100 par value. The stock is a non-marketable equity security and as such is classified as restricted stock, carried at cost and evaluated for impairment in accordance with relevant accounting guidance. In accordance with this guidance, the stock s value is determined by the ultimate recoverability of the par value rather than by recognizing temporary declines. The determination of whether the par value will ultimately be recovered is influenced by criteria such as the following: (a) the significance of any decline in net assets of the FHLB as compared to the capital stock amount and the length of time this situation has persisted; (b) commitments by the FHLB to make payments required by law or regulation and the level of such payments in relation to the operating performance; (c) the potential impact of legislative and regulatory changes on the customer base of the FHLB; and (d) the liquidity position of the FHLB. Management evaluated the stock and concluded that the stock was not impaired for the periods presented herein. Consideration was given to the long-term prospects for the FHLB. Management also considered that the FHLB s regulatory capital ratios have increased from the prior year, liquidity appears adequate, and new shares of FHLB stock continue to exchange hands at $100 par value. 9 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The Bank is required to maintain an investment in capital stock of the Federal Reserve Bank ( FRB ), as collateral, in an amount equal to one percent of six percent of the Bank s total equity capital as per the latest Report of Condition (Call Report). The stock is purchased from and redeemed by the FRB based upon its $100 par value. The stock is a non-marketable equity security and as such is classified as restricted stock, carried at cost and evaluated for impairment in accordance with relevant accounting guidance. In accordance with this guidance, the stock s value is determined by the ultimate recoverability of the par value rather than by recognizing temporary declines. The determination of whether the par value will ultimately be recovered is influenced by criteria such as the following: (a) the significance of any decline in net assets of the FRB as compared to the capital stock amount and the length of time this situation has persisted; (b) the potential impact of legislative and regulatory changes on the customer base of the FRB; and (c) the liquidity position of the FRB. Member banks may carry over changes within a calendar year until the cumulative change exceeds the lesser of 15% or 100 shares of Federal Reserve Bank stock. However, any change required by a member bank s capital and surplus, as shown in its Report of Condition as of December 31 of each year, must be applied for even if the change is less than 100 shares of Federal Reserve Bank stock and less than 15% of the Federal Reserve Bank stock held by the member bank. Management evaluated the stock and concluded that the stock was not impaired for the periods presented herein. Consideration was given to the long-term prospects for the FRB. Management also considered that liquidity appears adequate and new shares of FRB stock continue to exchange hands at the $100 par value. Debt securities, if any, that management has the positive intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held to maturity and are recorded at amortized cost. Trading securities, if any, are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings. Securities not classified as held to maturity or trading, including equity securities with readily determinable fair values, are classified as available for sale and recorded at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported in other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes. Purchase premiums and discounts are recognized in interest income using the interest method over the contractual lives of the securities. The Company conducts a quarterly review and evaluation of the securities portfolio to determine if a decline in the fair value of any security below its cost basis is other-than-temporary. Our evaluation of other-than-temporary impairment, or OTTI, considers the duration and severity of the impairment, our intent and ability to hold the securities and our assessments of the reason for the decline in value and the likelihood of a near-term recovery. If such decline is deemed other-than-temporary, the security is written down to a new cost basis and the resulting loss is charged to earnings as a component of non-interest income, except for the amount of the total OTTI for a debt security that does not represent credit losses which is recognized in other comprehensive income/loss, net of applicable taxes. Security transactions are recorded on the trade date. Realized gains and losses on the sale of securities are recorded on the trade date and are determined using the specific identification method and reported in non-interest income. 10 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The sale of a held to maturity security within three months of its maturity date or after collection of at least 85% of the principal outstanding at the time the security was acquired is considered a maturity for purposes of classification and disclosure. Loans held for sale Loans held for sale, are those loans the Company has the intent to sell in the foreseeable future, and are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value, less estimated selling costs. Gains and losses on sales of loans are recognized on the trade dates, and are determined by the difference between the sales proceeds and the carrying value of the loans. Once loans are transferred to held for sale, any subsequent impairment in loans held for sale is recorded in non-interest income. Loans receivable Loans that the Company has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future or until maturity or pay-off generally are reported at their outstanding unpaid principal balances adjusted for unearned income, the allowance for loan losses, and any unamortized deferred fees or costs. Interest income is accrued based on the unpaid principal balance. Loan origination fees, and certain direct origination costs, are deferred and amortized as a level yield adjustment over the respective term of the loan and reported in interest income. The accrual of interest on loans is discontinued at the time the loan is 90 days past due for payment unless the loan is well-secured and in process of collection. Consumer installment loans are typically charged off no later than 180 days past due. Past due status is based on contractual terms of the loan. In all cases, loans are placed on nonaccrual status or charged-off at an earlier date if collection of principal or interest is considered doubtful. All interest accrued but not collected for loans that are placed on nonaccrual status or charged off are reversed against interest income. The interest on these loans is accounted for on the cash-basis method until qualifying for return to accrual status. Upon receipt of cash, all cash received is first applied to satisfy principal and then applied to interest. Loans are returned to accrual status when all the principal and interest amounts contractually due are brought current and future payments are reasonably assured. The Company s real estate loans are collateralized by real estate located principally in Fairfield and New Haven Counties in Connecticut and Westchester County, New York City and Long Island, New York, and accordingly, the ultimate collectability of a substantial portion of the Company s loan portfolio is susceptible to changes in regional real estate market conditions. 11 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be unable to collect the scheduled payments of principal or interest when due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. Factors considered by management in determining impairment include payment status, collateral value, and the probability of collecting scheduled principal and interest payments when due. Loans that experience insignificant payment delays and payment shortfalls generally are not classified as impaired. Management determines the significance of payment delays and payment shortfalls on a case-by-case basis, taking into consideration all of the circumstances surrounding the loan and the borrower, including the length of the delay, the reasons for the delay, the borrower s prior payment record, and the amount of the shortfall in relation to the principal and interest owed. Impairment is measured on a loan by loan basis for commercial and real estate loans by either the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate, the loan s obtainable market price, or the fair value of the collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. Impaired loans also include loans modified in troubled debt restructurings (TDRs), where concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. These concessions could include a reduction in the interest rate on the loan, payment extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance or other actions intended to maximize collection. TDRs are normally placed on non-accrual status until the loan qualifies for return to accrual status. Loans qualify for return to accrual status once they have demonstrated performance with the restructured term of the loan agreement for a minimum of six months. Large groups of smaller balance homogeneous loans are collectively evaluated for impairment. Accordingly, the Company does not separately identify individual consumer installment loans for impairment disclosures, unless such loans are the subject of a restructuring agreement due to financial difficulties of the borrower. Allowance for loan losses The allowance for loan losses is established as losses are estimated to have occurred through a provision for loan losses charged to earnings. Loan losses are charged against the allowance when management believes the uncollectibility of a loan balance is confirmed. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. The allowance for loan losses is evaluated on a regular basis by management and is based upon management s periodic review of the collectability of the loans in light of historical experience, the nature and volume of the loan portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrower s ability to repay, estimated value of any underlying collateral and prevailing economic conditions. This evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimates that are susceptible to significant revision as more information becomes available. 12 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The allowance consists of specific and general components. The specific component relates to loans that are considered impaired. For such impaired loans, an allowance is established when the discounted cash flows (or collateral value if the loan is collateral dependent or observable market price) of the impaired loan is lower than the carrying value of that loan. The general component covers all other loans, segregated generally by loan type, and is based on historical loss experience with adjustments for qualitative factors which are made after an assessment of internal or external influences on credit quality that are not fully reflected in the historical loss data. In addition, a risk rating system is utilized to evaluate the general component of the allowance for loan losses. Under this system, management assigns risk ratings between one and eleven based upon the recommendations of the credit analyst and the originating loan officer and confirmed by the Loan Committee at the initiation of the transaction and are reviewed and changed, when necessary, during the life of the loan. Loans assigned a risk rating of six or above are monitored more closely by the credit administration officers and the Loan Committee. Included in the valuation allowance are disposition discount adjustments made to real estate appraisals on collateral dependent impaired loans anticipated to become other real estate owned ( OREO ) in the coming quarter, as the Company s recent experience has indicated that the ultimate sales prices of the underlying collateral have been less than the appraisal amounts. The appraisal adjustment percentage will be reviewed quarterly for those loans anticipated to become OREO in the subsequent quarter, based on an analysis of actual variances between appraised values as of the date the loan is transferred into OREO and the actual sales prices of the OREO properties. Generally, the sales prices have been below the appraised values due to the fact that buyers become aware that the Bank owns those properties, and, therefore, attempt to offer less than fair market value. In the future, additional revisions may be made to the methodology and assumptions based on historical information related to charge-off and recovery experience and management s evaluation of the current loan portfolio, and prevailing internal and external factors including but not limited to current economic conditions and local real estate markets. The Company provides for loan losses based on the consistent application of our documented allowance for loan loss methodology. Loan losses are charged to the allowance for loan losses and recoveries are credited to it. Additions to the allowance for loan losses are provided by charges against income based on various factors which, in our judgment, deserve current recognition in estimating probable losses. Loan losses are charged-off in the period the loans, or portion thereof, are deemed uncollectible. Generally, the Company will record a loan charge-off (including a partial charge-off) to reduce a loan to the estimated fair value of the underlying collateral, less cost to sell, for collateral dependent loans. The Company regularly reviews the loan portfolio and makes adjustments for loan losses in order to maintain the allowance for loan losses in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The allowance for loan losses consists primarily of the following two components: 13 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 (1) Allowances are established for impaired loans (defined by the Company as non-accrual loans, troubled debt restructurings and loans that were previously classified as troubled debt restructurings but have been upgraded). The amount of impairment provided for as an allowance is represented by the deficiency, if any, between the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the original loan s effective interest rate or the underlying collateral value (less estimated costs to sell,) if the loan is collateral dependent, and the carrying value of the loan. Impaired loans that have no impairment losses are not considered for general valuation allowances described below. (2) General allowances are established for loan losses on a portfolio basis for loans that do not meet the definition of impaired. The portfolio is grouped into similar risk characteristics, primarily loan type, loan-to-value, if collateral dependent, and internal risk ratings. Management applies an estimated loss rate to each loan group. The loss rates applied are based on the Company s cumulative prior two year loss experience adjusted, as appropriate, for the environmental factors discussed below. This evaluation is inherently subjective, as it requires material estimates that may be susceptible to significant revisions based upon changes in economic and real estate market conditions. Actual loan losses may be more or less than the allowance for loan losses management has established, which could have an effect on the Company s financial results. The adjustments to the Company s loss experience are based on management s evaluation of several environmental factors, including: Changes in local, regional, national and international economic and business conditions and developments that affect the collectability of the portfolio, including the condition of various market segments; Changes in the nature and volume of the portfolio and in the terms of the loans; Changes in the experience, ability, and depth of lending management and other relevant staff; Changes in the volume and severity of past due loans, the volume of nonaccrual loans, and the volume and severity of adversely classified or graded loans; Changes in the quality of the loan review system; Changes in the value of the underlying collateral for collateral-dependent loans; The existence and effect of any concentrations of credit, and changes in the level of such concentrations; and The effect of other external factors such as competition and legal and regulatory requirements on the level of estimated credit losses in the existing portfolio. 14 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 In underwriting a loan secured by real property, we require an appraisal of the property by an independent licensed appraiser approved by the Company s Board of Directors. All appraisals are reviewed by qualified parties independent from the firm preparing the appraisals. Management reviews and inspects properties before disbursement of funds during the term of a construction loan. Generally, management obtains updated appraisals when a loan is deemed impaired and if a construction loan, within 120 days prior to the scheduled maturity date. These appraisals may be more limited than those prepared for the underwriting of a new loan. Management evaluates the allowance for loan losses based on the combined total of the impaired and general components. Generally, when the loan portfolio increases, absent other factors, the allowance for loan loss methodology results in a higher dollar amount of estimated probable losses. Conversely, when the loan portfolio decreases, absent other factors, the allowance for loan loss methodology results in a lower dollar amount of estimated probable losses. Each quarter management evaluates the allowance for loan losses and adjusts the allowance, as appropriate, through a provision for loan losses. While the Company uses the best information available to make evaluations, future adjustments to the allowance may be necessary if conditions differ substantially from the information used in making the evaluations. In addition, as an integral part of their examination process, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency will periodically review the allowance for loan losses. The OCC may require the Company to adjust the allowance based on their analysis of information available to them at the time of their examination. Mortgage banking activities The Company originates residential loans from various sources to be held for sale into the secondary market. The Company renders a credit decision and issues a loan commitment. The loan is then closed and funded by the Company. The loan is subsequently sold to a predetermined secondary market investor. The gain on sale fee income is recognized upon the purchase of the loan by an investor. A reserve is established for prepayments, early payment defaults and other investor claims. The Company receives loan brokerage fees for soliciting and processing conventional loan applications on behalf of investors. Brokerage fee income is recognized upon closing of loans for permanent investors. Transfers of financial assets Transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales, when control over the assets has been surrendered. Control over transferred assets is deemed to be surrendered when (1) the assets have been isolated from the Company put presumptively beyond the reach of the transferor and its creditors, even in bankruptcy or other receivership, (2) the transferee obtains the right (free of conditions that constrain it from taking advantage of that right) to pledge or exchange the transferred assets and no condition both constrains the transferee from taking advantage of that right and provides more than a trivial benefit for the transferor, and (3) the transferor does not maintain effective control over the transferred assets through either (a) an agreement that both entitles and obligates the transferor to repurchase or redeem the assets before maturity or (b) the ability to unilaterally cause the holder to return specific assets, other than through a cleanup call. 15 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Other real estate owned Assets acquired through, or in lieu of, loan foreclosure are held for sale and are initially recorded at the lower of cost or estimated fair value less cost to sell at the date of foreclosure, establishing a new cost basis. In addition, when the Company acquires other real estate owned ( OREO ), it obtains a current appraisal to substantiate the net carrying value of the asset. Subsequent to foreclosure, valuations are periodically performed by management and the assets are carried at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Revenue and expenses from operations and changes in the valuation allowance are included in operations. Costs relating to the development and improvement of the property are capitalized, subject to the limit of fair value of the collateral. Gains or losses are included in non-interest expenses upon disposal. Write-downs required upon transfer to other real estate owned are charged to the allowance for loan losses. Thereafter, an allowance for other real estate owned losses is established for any further declines in the property s value. These losses are included in non-interest expenses in the consolidated statement of operations. Premises and equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Leasehold improvements are capitalized and amortized over the shorter of the terms of the related leases or the estimated economic lives of the improvements. Depreciation is charged to operations for buildings, furniture, equipment and software using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets which range from three to twenty years. Gains and losses on dispositions are recognized upon realization. Maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred and improvements are capitalized. Impairment of assets Long-lived assets, which are held and used by the Company, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If impairment is indicated by that review, the asset is written down to its estimated fair value through a charge to non-interest expense. Cash surrender value of life insurance Cash surrender value of life insurance represents life insurance on certain employees who have consented to allow the Bank to be the beneficiary of those policies. Increases in the cash value of the policies, as well as insurance proceeds received above the carrying value, are recorded in other non-interest income and are not subject to income tax. Management reviews the financial strength of the insurance carrier on an annual basis. 16 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Income taxes The Company recognizes income taxes under the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases, and loss carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company recognizes a benefit from its tax positions only if it is more-likely-than-not that the tax position will be sustained on examination by taxing authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in the consolidated financial statements from such a position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50% likelihood of being realized upon ultimate settlement with a taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information. The periods subject to examination for the Company s Federal returns are the tax years 2007 through 2012. The periods subject to examination for the Company s significant state return, which is Connecticut, are the tax years 2009 through 2012. The Company believes that its income tax filing positions and deductions will be sustained upon examination and does not anticipate any adjustments that will result in a material change in its consolidated financial statements. As a result, no reserve for uncertain income tax positions has been recorded. The Company s policy for recording interest and penalties related to uncertain tax positions is to record such items as part of its provision for federal and state income taxes. Related party transactions Directors and officers of the Company and the Bank and their affiliates have been customers of and have had transactions with the Bank, and it is expected that such persons and entities will continue to have such transactions in the future. Management believes that all deposit accounts, loans, services and commitments comprising such transactions were made in the ordinary course of business, and on substantially the same terms, including interest rates and collateral requirements, as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with other customers who are not directors or officers. In the opinion of management, the transactions with related parties did not involve more than normal risks of collectability or favored treatment or terms, or present other unfavorable features. Note 18 contains details regarding related party transactions. 17 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Loss per share Basic loss per share represents loss relating to common shareholders and is computed by dividing net loss by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted loss per share reflects additional common shares that would have been outstanding if potential dilutive common shares had been issued, as well as any adjustment to income that would result from the assumed issuance unless such assumed issuance is antidilutive. Potential common shares that may be issued by the Company relate to any stock options and warrants that may be outstanding, and are determined using the treasury stock method. Treasury shares are not deemed outstanding for loss per share purposes. Share-based compensation plan The Company accounts for share-based compensation transactions at fair-value and recognizes the related expense in the consolidated statements of operations. The Compensation Committee establishes terms and conditions applicable to the vesting of restricted stock awards and stock options. Restricted stock grants vest in quarterly installments over a four year period from the date of grant. The fair value of stock options granted are estimated utilizing the Black-Scholes options pricing modeling. The Company is expensing the grant date fair value of all share-based compensation over the requisite vesting periods on a straight-line basis. Comprehensive income (loss) Accounting principles generally require that recognized revenue, expenses, gains and losses be included in net income (loss). Although certain changes in assets and liabilities, such as unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities, are reported as a separate component of shareholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets, such items, along with net income, are components of comprehensive income. Segment reporting The Company s only business segment is Community Banking. During the years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010, this segment represented all the revenues and income of the consolidated group and therefore, is the only reported segment. Fair value The Company uses fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain assets and to determine fair value disclosures. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value is best determined based upon quoted market prices. However, in certain instances, there are no quoted market prices for certain assets or liabilities. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, fair values are based on estimates using present value or other valuation techniques. Those techniques are significantly affected by the assumptions used, including the discount rate and estimates of future cash flows. Accordingly, the fair value estimates may not be realized in an immediate settlement of the asset or liability. 18 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Fair value measurements focus on exit prices in an orderly transaction (that is, not a forced liquidation or distressed sale) between market participants at the measurement date under current market conditions. If there has been a significant decrease in the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability, a change in valuation technique or the use of multiple valuation techniques may be appropriate. In such instances, determining the price at which willing market participants would transact business at the measurement date under current market conditions depends on the facts and circumstances and requires the use of significant judgment. The Company s fair value measurements are classified into a fair value hierarchy based on the markets in which the assets and liabilities are traded and the reliability of the assumptions used to determine fair value. The three categories within the hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 Inputs Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access at the measurement date. Level 2 Inputs Inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. These might include quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability (such as interest rates, volatilities, prepayment speeds, credit risks, etc.) or inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by market data by correlation or other means. Level 3 Inputs Unobservable inputs for determining the fair values of assets or liabilities that reflect an entity s own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the assets or liabilities. In February 2010, the FASB issued ASU No. 2010-06 Topic 820 Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements which amends the existing guidance related to Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures. The amendments required the following new fair value disclosures: Separate disclosure of the significant transfers in and out of Level 1 and Level 2 fair value measurements, and a description of the reasons for the transfers. In the rollforward of activity for Level 3 fair value measurements (significant unobservable inputs), purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements should be presented separately (on a gross basis rather than as one net number). 19 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 In addition, the amendments clarify existing disclosure requirements, as follows: Fair value measurements and disclosures should be presented for each class of assets and liabilities within a line item in the statement of financial position. Reporting entities should provide disclosures about the valuation techniques and inputs used to measure fair value for both recurring and nonrecurring fair value measurements that fall in either Level 2 or Level 3. The new disclosures and clarifications of existing disclosures were effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2009, except for the disclosures included in the rollforward of activity for Level 3 fair value measurements, for which the effective date was for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2010, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. The Company adopted this guidance during the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and March 31, 2011 respectively, and has included these disclosures in these financial statements. See Note 20 for additional information regarding fair value. Recently issued accounting pronouncements Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2011-04, Fair Value Measurements (Topic 820) Amendments to Achieve Common Fair Value Measurement and Disclosure Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs, was issued as a result of the effort to develop common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements in U.S. GAAP and International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS ). While ASU No. 2011-04 is largely consistent with existing fair value measurement principles in U.S. GAAP, it expands the existing disclosure requirements for fair value measurements and clarifies the existing guidance or wording changes to align with IFRS No. 13. Many of the requirements for the amendments in ASU No. 2011-04 do not result in a change in the application of the requirements in Topic 820. The Company adopted ASU No. 2011-04 on January 1, 2012 and it did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. ASU No. 2011-05, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220) Presentation of Comprehensive Income, requires an entity to present components of comprehensive income either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or in two separate consecutive statements. These amendments made the financial statement presentation of other comprehensive income more prominent by eliminating the alternative to present comprehensive income within the statement of equity. As originally issued, ASU No. 2011-05 required entities to present reclassification adjustments out of accumulated other comprehensive income by component in the statement in which net income is presented and the statement in which other comprehensive income is presented (for both interim and annual financial statements). This requirement was deferred by ASU No. 2011-12, Comprehensive Income (Topic 220) Deferral of the Effective Date for Amendments to the Presentation of Reclassification of Items Out of Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income in Accounting Standards . ASU No. 2011-05 is effective for all interim and annual periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter of 2012 and elected to present comprehensive income in a separate consolidated statement of comprehensive income. 20 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 In April 2011, the FASB issued ASU No. 2011-02, A Creditor s Determination of Whether a Restructuring Is a Troubled Debt Restructuring. The amendments in this update apply to all creditors, both public and nonpublic, that restructure receivables that fall within the scope of Subtopic 310-40, Receivables Troubled Debt Restructurings by Creditors. The amendments in this ASU clarify the guidance on a creditor s evaluation of whether it has granted a concession and whether a debtor is experiencing financial difficulties. In addition, the amendments clarify that a creditor is precluded from using the effective interest rate test in the debtor s guidance on restructuring of payables when evaluating whether a restructuring constitutes a troubled debt restructuring. These amendments are effective for the first interim or annual period beginning on or after June 15, 2011. The Company adopted this guidance in the first quarter ended March 31, 2011 and the guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s results of operations or financial position. The FASB issued ASU No. 2010-20, Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance for Credit Losses in July 2010. The amendments in this ASU apply to all entities, both public and nonpublic, with financing receivables, excluding short-term trade accounts receivable or receivables measured at fair value or lower of cost or fair value. The amendments in this ASU enhance disclosures about the credit quality of financing receivables and the allowance for credit losses. This ASU amends existing disclosure guidance to require entities to provide a greater level of disaggregated information about the credit quality of its financing receivables and its allowance for credit losses. In addition, this ASU requires entities to disclose credit quality indicators, past due information, and modifications of its financing receivables. For public entities, the disclosures as of the end of a reporting period are effective for interim and annual reporting periods ending on or after December 15, 2010. The disclosures about activity that occurs during a reporting period are effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 2010. An entity must disclose the information required by paragraphs 310-10-50-33 through 50-34, which was deferred by ASU No. 2011-01, Deferral of the Effective Date of Disclosures about Troubled Debt Restructurings in Update No. 2010-20, for interim and annual periods beginning on or after June 15, 2011. The adoption of this guidance did not have an impact on the Company s results of operations or financial position. 21 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 2. Restrictions on Cash and Due From Banks At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company was required to maintain $25,000 in the Federal Reserve Bank for clearing purposes for its transaction accounts and non-personal time deposits. Note 3. Available-for-Sale Securities The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses and approximate fair value of available-for-sale securities at December 31, 2012 and 2011 are as follows: Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Fair 2012 Cost Gains Losses Value U. S. Government agency bonds $ 7,500,000 $ 26,170 $ $ 7,526,170 U. S. Government agency mortgage-backed securities 25,837,100 (130,209 ) 25,706,891 Corporate bonds 9,000,000 (513,741 ) 8,486,259 $ 42,337,100 $ 26,170 $ (643,950 ) $ 41,719,320 Gross Gross Amortized Unrealized Unrealized Fair 2011 Cost Gains Losses Value U. S. Government agency bonds $ 5,000,000 $ 37,085 $ $ 5,037,085 U. S. Government agency mortgage-backed securities 49,004,232 1,051,097 (5,900 ) 50,049,429 Corporate bonds 12,249,064 25,338 (890,944 ) 11,383,458 $ 66,253,296 $ 1,113,520 $ (896,844 ) $ 66,469,972 22 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table presents the Company s available for sale securities gross unrealized losses and fair value, aggregated by the length of time the individual securities have been in a continuous loss position, at December 31, 2012 and 2011: Less Than 12 Months 12 Months or More Total Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized Fair Unrealized Value Loss Value Loss Value Loss 2012 U. S. Government agency mortgage-backed securities $ 25,670,832 $ (130,209 ) $ $ $ 25,670,832 $ (130,209 ) Corporate bonds 2,842,368 (157,632 ) 5,643,891 (356,109 ) 8,486,259 (513,741 ) Totals $ 28,513,200 $ (287,841 ) $ 5,643,891 $ (356,109 ) $ 34,157,091 $ (643,950 ) 2011 U. S. Government agency mortgage-backed securities $ 4,941,662 $ (5,492 ) $ 68,309 $ (408 ) $ 5,009,971 $ (5,900 ) Corporate bonds 8,358,120 (890,944 ) 8,358,120 (890,944 ) Totals $ 13,299,782 $ (896,436 ) $ 68,309 $ (408 ) $ 13,368,091 $ (896,844 ) At December 31, 2012, nine securities had unrealized losses with an aggregate depreciation of 1.9% from the amortized cost, compared to nine securities at December 31, 2011 with an aggregate depreciation of 6.3% from the amortized cost. The Company performs a quarterly analysis of those securities that are in an unrealized loss position to determine if those losses qualify as other-than-temporary impairments. This analysis considers the following criteria in its determination: the ability of the issuer to meet its obligations, when the loss position is due to a deterioration in credit quality, management s plans and ability to maintain its investment in the security, the length of time and the amount by which the security has been in a loss position, the interest rate environment, the general economic environment and prospects for projections for improvement or deterioration. Management believes that none of the unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities noted above are other than temporary due to the fact that they relate to market interest rate changes on corporate debt and mortgage-backed securities issued by U.S. Government agencies. Management considers the issuers of the securities to be financially sound, the corporate bonds are investment grade and the Company expects to receive all contractual principal and interest related to these investments. Because the Company does not intend to sell the investments, and it is not more-likely-than-not that the Company will be required to sell the investments before recovery of their amortized cost basis, which may be maturity, the Company does not consider those investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2012. 23 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 At December 31, 2012 and 2011, available-for-sale securities with a carrying value of $6,913,797 and $8,041,000, respectively, were pledged to secure municipal deposits. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, available-for-sale securities with a carrying value of $9,088,000 and $10,309,000, respectively, were pledged to secure securities sold under agreements to repurchase. The amortized cost and fair value of available-for-sale debt securities at December 31, 2012 by contractual maturity are presented below. Actual maturities of mortgage-backed securities may differ from contractual maturities because the mortgages underlying the securities may be repaid without any penalties. Because mortgage-backed securities are not due at a single maturity date, they are not included in the maturity categories in the following maturity summary. Amortized Fair Cost Value Maturity: Corporate bonds 5 to 10 years $ 9,000,000 $ 8,486,259 U.S. Government bonds 5 to 10 years 7,500,000 7,526,170 Mortgage-backed securities 25,837,100 25,706,891 Total $ 42,337,100 $ 41,719,320 During 2012, sales of available-for-sale securities resulted in the Company recognizing proceeds of $45,226,033, and gross gains and gross losses of $910,591 and $9,651 respectively. During 2011 there were ten sales of available-for-sale securities, which resulted in the Company recognizing gross proceeds from the sales of $26,349,070 and gross gains of $1,109,305. During 2010 there were no sales of available-for-sale securities. 24 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 4. Loans Receivable and Allowance for Loan Losses Loans receivable, net, consists of the following at December 31, 2012 and 2011: December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 Real Estate: Commercial $ 247,495,321 $ 215,659,837 Residential 119,033,025 188,108,855 Construction 4,997,991 12,306,922 Construction-to-permanent 4,851,768 10,012,022 Commercial 36,428,751 31,810,735 Consumer home equity 49,180,908 49,694,546 Consumer installment 2,162,718 2,164,972 Total loans 464,150,482 509,757,889 Premiums on purchased loans 219,649 231,125 Net deferred costs 439,041 622,955 Allowance for loan losses (6,015,636 ) (9,384,672 ) Loans receivable, net $ 458,793,536 $ 501,227,297 During 2012, the Bank completed bulk loan sales of $97.0 million of residential loans consummated for a cash purchase price of $98.5 million, which represented 101.5% of the Bank s net book value for these assets. A summary of changes in the allowance for loan losses for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Balance, beginning of year $ 9,384,672 $ 15,374,101 $ 15,794,118 Provision for loan losses (2,379,223 ) 7,464,427 7,714,000 Transferred to loans held-for-sale (6,054,660 ) Recoveries of loans previously charged-off 80,543 853,578 236,262 Loans charged-off (1,070,356 ) (8,252,774 ) (8,370,279 ) Balance, end of year $ 6,015,636 $ 9,384,672 $ 15,374,101 25 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the unpaid principal balances of loans 90 days or more past due, and still accruing were approximately $2.2 million and $9.5 million respectively, and the unpaid principal balances of loans on non-accrual status and considered impaired were $23.8 million and $20.7 million respectively. Four of the five loans as of December 31, 2012, totaling $1,667,000, were making payments, but past the loan s maturity date and were in the process of being renewed. The other loan totaling $567,000 was over 90 days past due as to payments and past the loan s maturity date, but was subsequently paid off. At December 31, 2011, ten of the thirteen loans totaling $4.9 million were current as to loan payments, but past the loan s maturity dates and in the process of renewal. Three loans totaling $4.6 million were over 30 days but under 60 days past due as to payments. On March 24, 2011, the Company completed the sale of certain non-performing assets that included 21 non-accruing loans with an aggregate net book value of $52.4 million (net of related specific reserves) and 4 OREO properties with an aggregate carrying value of $14.4 million. The sale of $66.8 million of non-performing assets was consummated for a cash purchase price of $60,602,036 which represented 90.7% of the Bank s net book value for these assets. At December 31, 2012, there were 8 loans totaling $11.6 million that were considered troubled debt restructurings , as compared to 12 loans totaling $25.5 million that were considered troubled debt restructurings at December 31, 2011, all of which are included in impaired loans. At December 31, 2012, 1 of the 8 loans aggregating $0.5 million was accruing and 7 loans aggregating $11.1 million were non-accruing loans. At December 31, 2011, 6 of the 12 loans aggregating $16.1 million were accruing and 6 loans aggregating $9.4 million were non-accruing loans. Loan modifications, which resulted in these loans being considered troubled debt restructurings, are primarily in the form of rate concessions or term extensions. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, there were no commitments to advance additional funds under troubled debt restructured loans. If impaired loans had been performing in accordance with their original terms, the Company would have recorded $1.5 million, $2.3 million and $6.8 million of additional income during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. During 2012, 2011 and 2010, interest income collected and recognized on impaired loans was $231,000, $465,000 and $1.8 million, respectively. The average recorded investment in impaired loans for the years ending December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were $35.0 million, $49.8 million and $104.9 million respectively. The Company s lending activities are conducted principally in Fairfield and New Haven Counties in Connecticut and Westchester County, New York City and Long Island, New York. The Company originates commercial real estate loans, commercial business loans, residential real estate loans and a variety of other consumer loans. In addition, the Company had originated loans for the construction of residential homes, residential developments and for land development projects. A moratorium on all new speculative construction loans was instituted by management in July 2008. All residential and commercial mortgage loans are collateralized primarily by first or second mortgages on real estate. The ability and willingness of borrowers to satisfy their loan obligations is dependent to some degree on the status of the regional economy as well as upon the regional real estate market. Accordingly, the ultimate collectability of a substantial portion of the loan portfolio and the recovery of a substantial portion of any resulting real estate acquired is susceptible to changes in market conditions. 26 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The Company has established credit policies applicable to each type of lending activity in which it engages, evaluates the creditworthiness of each customer and, in most cases, extends credit of up to 75% of the market value of the collateral for commercial real estate at the date of the credit extension depending on the Company s evaluation of the borrowers creditworthiness and type of collateral and up to 80% for residential 1-4 family real estate. In the case of construction loans, the maximum loan-to-value was 65% of the as completed market value. The market value of collateral is monitored on an ongoing basis and additional collateral is obtained when warranted. Real estate is the primary form of collateral. Other important forms of collateral are accounts receivable, inventory, other business assets, marketable securities and time deposits. While collateral provides assurance as a secondary source of repayment, the Company ordinarily requires the primary source of repayment to be based on the borrower s ability to generate continuing cash flows on all loans not related to construction. Risk characteristics of the Company s portfolio classes include the following: Commercial Real Estate Loans In underwriting commercial real estate loans, the Company evaluates both the prospective borrower s ability to make timely payments on the loan and the value of the property securing the loans. Repayment of such loans may be negatively impacted should the borrower default or should there be a substantial decline in the value of the property securing the loan or a decline in the general economic conditions. Where the owner occupies the property, the Company also evaluates the business s ability to repay the loan on a timely basis. In addition, the Company may require personal guarantees, lease assignments and/or the guarantee of the operating company when the property is owner occupied. These types of loans may involve some additional risks because payments on such loans are dependent upon the successful operation of the business involved, therefore, repayment of such loans may be negatively impacted by adverse changes in economic conditions affecting the borrowers businesses. Commercial and Industrial Loans The Company s commercial and industrial loan portfolio consists primarily of commercial business loans and lines of credit to businesses and professionals. These loans are usually made to finance the purchase of inventory or new or used equipment and for other short or long-term working capital purposes. These loans are generally secured by corporate assets, often with real estate as secondary collateral, but are also occasionally offered on an unsecured basis. In granting this type of loan, the Company primarily looks to the borrower s cash flow as the source of repayment with collateral and personal guarantees, where obtained, as a secondary source. Commercial loans are often larger and may involve greater risks than other type of loans offered by the Company. Payments on such loans are often dependent upon the successful operation of the underlying business involved. Repayment of such loans may therefore be negatively impacted by adverse changes in economic conditions, management s inability to effectively manage the business, claims of others against the borrower s assets which may take priority over the Company s claims against assets, death or disability of the borrower or loss of market for the borrower s products or services. 27 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Residential Real Estate Loans Various loans secured by residential real estate properties are offered by the Company, including 1-4 family residential mortgages, multi-family residential loans and a variety of home equity line of credit products. Repayment of such loans may be negatively impacted should the borrower default, should there be a significant decline in the value of the property securing the loan or should there be a decline in general economic conditions. Construction Loans Construction loans are short-term loans (generally up to 18 months) secured by land for both residential and commercial development. The loans are generally made for acquisition and improvements. Funds are disbursed as phases of construction are completed. In the past, the Company funded construction of single family homes, when no contract of sale exists, based upon the experience and the financial strength of the builder, the type and location of the property and other factors. Construction loans are generally personally guaranteed by the principal(s). Repayment of such loans may be negatively impacted by the builders inability to complete construction, by a downturn in the new construction market, by a significant increase in interest rates or by a decline in general economic conditions. The Company has had a moratorium in place since mid-2008 on new speculative construction loans. Other Loans The Company also offers installment loans and reserve lines of credit to individuals. Repayments of such loans are often dependent on the personal income of the borrower which may be negatively impacted by adverse changes in economic conditions. The Company does not place an emphasis on originating these types of loans. The Company does not have any lending programs commonly referred to as subprime lending. Subprime lending generally targets borrowers with weakened credit histories typically characterized by payment delinquencies, previous charge-offs, judgments, bankruptcies, or borrowers with questionable repayment capacity as evidenced by low credit scores or high debt-burdened ratios. 28 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following tables set forth activity in our allowance for loan losses, by loan type, for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. The following tables also detail the amount of loans receivable, net, that are evaluated individually, and collectively, for impairment, and the related portion of the allowance for loan losses that is allocated to each loan portfolio segment. 2012 Commercial Commercial Real Estate Construction Construction to Permanent Residential Consumer Unallocated Total Allowance for loan losses: Beginning Balance $ 882,062 $ 4,018,746 $ 867,159 $ 547,333 $ 2,550,588 $ 458,762 $ 60,022 $ 9,384,672 Charge-offs (48,414 ) (49,922 ) (101,391 ) (84,711 ) (785,918 ) (1,070,356 ) Transferred to loans held-for-sale Recoveries 10,861 66,951 2,731 80,543 Provision 96,947 (526,380 ) (454,471 ) (528,613 ) (1,568,509 ) 541,123 60,680 (2,379,223 ) Ending Balance $ 941,456 $ 3,509,395 $ 311,297 $ 18,720 $ 897,368 $ 216,698 $ 120,702 $ 6,015,636 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment $ 33,280 $ 728,607 $ 120,616 $ $ 83,543 $ 2,368 $ $ 968,414 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment 908,176 2,780,788 190,681 18,720 813,825 214,330 120,702 5,047,222 Total Allowance for Loan Losses $ 941,456 $ 3,509,395 $ 311,297 $ 18,720 $ 897,368 $ 216,698 $ 120,702 $ 6,015,636 Total Loans ending balance $ 36,428,751 $ 247,495,321 $ 4,997,991 $ 4,851,768 $ 119,033,025 $ 51,343,626 $ $ 464,150,482 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment 219,509 15,909,103 1,862,038 1,258,710 13,567,175 566,543 33,383,078 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment $ 36,209,242 $ 231,586,218 $ 3,135,953 $ 3,593,058 $ 105,465,850 $ 50,777,083 $ $ 430,767,404 29 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 2011 Commercial Commercial Real Estate Construction Construction to Permanent Residential Consumer Unallocated Total Allowance for loan losses: Beginning Balance $ 441,319 $ 7,632,355 $ 3,478,058 $ 491,446 $ 2,363,838 $ 578,612 $ 388,473 $ 15,374,101 Charge-offs (374,506 ) (2,940,901 ) (3,305,318 ) (1,458,198 ) (173,851 ) (8,252,774 ) Transferred to loans held-for-sale (963,461 ) (1,409,701 ) (3,681,498 ) (6,054,660 ) Recoveries 1,240 33,764 519,160 299,414 853,578 Provision 814,009 256,989 1,584,960 55,887 5,326,446 (245,413 ) (328,451 ) 7,464,427 Ending Balance $ 882,062 $ 4,018,746 $ 867,159 $ 547,333 $ 2,550,588 $ 458,762 $ 60,022 $ 9,384,672 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment $ 61,145 $ 319,894 $ 31,520 $ 498,254 $ 197,478 $ 151,500 $ $ 1,259,791 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment 820,917 3,698,852 835,639 49,079 2,353,110 307,262 60,022 8,124,881 Total Allowance for Loan Losses $ 882,062 $ 4,018,746 $ 867,159 $ 547,333 $ 2,550,588 $ 458,762 $ 60,022 $ 9,384,672 Total Loans ending balance $ 31,810,735 $ 215,659,837 $ 12,306,922 $ 10,012,022 $ 188,108,855 $ 51,859,518 $ $ 509,757,889 Ending balance: individually evaluated for impairment 289,560 9,575,970 1,378,579 9,108,987 14,986,243 1,417,742 36,757,081 Ending balance: collectively evaluated for impairment $ 31,521,175 $ 206,083,867 $ 10,928,343 $ 903,035 $ 173,122,612 $ 50,441,776 $ $ 473,000,808 30 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The Company monitors the credit quality of its loans receivable on an ongoing manner. Credit quality is monitored by reviewing certain credit quality indicators. Management has determined that internally assigned risk ratings and loan-to-value ratios (LTVs), at period end, are the key credit quality indicators that best help management monitor the credit quality of the Company s loans receivable. Loan-to-value ratios used by management in monitoring credit quality are based on current period loan balances and original values at time of origination (unless a current appraisal has been obtained as a result of the loan being deemed impaired or the loan is a maturing construction loan). Appraisals on properties securing impaired loans and Other Real Estate Owned ( OREO ) are updated annually. Additionally, appraisals on construction loans are updated four months in advance of scheduled maturity dates. We update our impairment analysis monthly based on the most recent appraisal as well as other factors (such as senior lien positions, e.g. property taxes). We are subscribers to a national real estate valuation database service and use published information regarding home sales prices in the towns/counties where our collateral is located in CT and NY. The majority of the Company s impaired loans have been resolved through courses of action other than via bank liquidations of real estate collateral through OREO. These include normal loan payoffs, the traditional workout process, triggering personal guarantee obligations, and troubled debt restructurings. However, as loan workout efforts progress to a point where the bank s liquidation of real estate collateral is the likely outcome, the impairment analysis is updated to reflect actual recent experience with bank sales of OREO properties. A disposition discount is built into our impairment analysis and reflected in our allowance once a property is determined to be a likely OREO (e.g. foreclosure is probable). To determine the discount we compare the average sales prices of our prior OREO properties to the appraised value that was obtained as of the date when we took title to the property. The difference is the bank-owned disposition discount. The Company has a risk rating system as part of the risk assessment of its loan portfolio. The Company s lending officers are required to assign an Obligor and a Facility risk rating to each loan in their portfolio at origination, which is ratified or modified by the Committee to which the loan is submitted for approval. When the lender learns of important financial developments, the risk rating is reviewed accordingly, and adjusted if necessary. All loans are reviewed annually. Similarly, the Loan Committee can adjust a risk rating. In addition, the Company engages a third party independent loan reviewer that performs quarterly reviews of a sample of loans, validating the Bank s risk ratings assigned to such loans. The risk ratings play an important role in the establishment of the loan loss provision and to confirm the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses. Any upgrades to classified loans must be approved by the Board Loan Committee. When assigning a risk rating to a loan, management utilizes the Bank s internal eleven-point risk rating system. 31 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 An asset is considered special mention when it has a potential weakness based on objective evidence, but does not currently expose the Company to sufficient risk to warrant classification in one of the following categories: An asset is considered substandard if it is not adequately protected by the current net worth and paying capacity of the obligor or of the collateral pledged, if any. Substandard assets have well defined weaknesses based on objective evidence, and are characterized by the distinct possibility that the Company will sustain some loss if the deficiencies are not corrected. Assets classified as doubtful have all of the weaknesses inherent in those classified substandard with the added characteristic that the weaknesses present make collection or liquidation in full, on the basis of currently existing facts, conditions, and values, highly questionable and improbable. During the quarter ended June 30, 2012, the Bank implemented enhancements to the allowance methodology, resulting in a reduction of the allowance for loan losses of $1.1 million for that period. In making this transition, the changes served to update and enhance the methodology to better reflect the direction of the current loan portfolio. The changes were threefold: First, the Bank adopted a two year, instead of a three year, weighted average historical loss factor as the basis for the calculation of its historical loss experience. This is used to calculate expected losses in the pools identified in the Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) (Topic 450-20), Loss Contingencies pools prior to the application of qualitative risk adjustment factors. This change was made to be more responsive to the changing credit environment. This shorter average historical loss period will produce results more indicative of the current and expected behavior of the portfolio. Second, the Bank adopted an Internal Risk Ratings Based (IRB) approach to calculating historical loss rates. This approach calibrates expected losses with actual risk assessment and equates the likelihood of loss to the level of risk in a credit facility rating. Previously, loss history was applied to categories of loans and qualitative adjustments were apportioned by risk rating within the categories. Third, the Bank increased the detail of analysis within the segments, particularly within Commercial Real Estate lending, which is currently the Bank s largest concentration overall, by expanding the number of ASC 450-20 pools. In all, ten sub-concentrations have been added to the analysis. The greater level of detail enables the Bank to better apply qualitative risk adjustment factors to the segments affected and to monitor changes in credit risk within the portfolio. Charge-off generally commences in the month that the loan is classified doubtful and is fully charged off within six months of such classification. If the account is classified loss the full balance is charged off immediately. The full balance is charged off regardless of the potential recovery from the sale of the collateral. This amount is recognized as a recovery once the collateral is sold. 32 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 In accordance with FFIEC ( Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council ) published policies establishing uniform criteria for the classification of retail credit based on delinquency status, Open-end credits are charged-off when 180 days delinquent and Closed-end credits are charged-off when 120 days delinquent. Typically, consumer installment loans are charged off no later than 90 days past due. 33 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table details the credit risk exposure of loans receivable, by loan type and credit quality indicator at December 31, 2012: CREDIT RISK PROFILE BY CREDITWORTHINESS CATEGORY Commercial Commercial Real Estate Construction Construction to Permanent Residential Real Estate Consumer LTVs: 75% = 75% 75% = 75% 75% = 75% 75% = 75% 75% = 75% 75% = 75% Other Total Internal Risk Rating Pass $ 25,563,777 $ 1,241,109 $ 203,149,356 $ 9,182,622 $ $ $ 3,593,058 $ $ 77,368,459 $ 25,617,355 $ 46,102,332 $ 3,752,752 765,469 $ 396,336,289 Special Mention 7,234,814 164,191 11,554,971 5,374,265 3,135,953 5,310,178 98,530 564,175 33,437,077 Substandard 2,014,401 210,459 8,503,630 9,730,477 1,862,038 1,258,710 2,524,186 8,212,847 2,368 58,000 34,377,116 $ 34,812,992 $ 1,615,759 $ 223,207,957 $ 24,287,364 $ 3,135,953 $ 1,862,038 $ 3,593,058 $ 1,258,710 $ 85,202,823 $ 33,830,202 $ 46,203,230 $ 4,374,927 $ 765,469 $ 464,150,482 CREDIT RISK PROFILE Commercial Commercial Real Estate Construction Construction to Permanent Residential Real Estate Consumer Totals Performing $ 36,209,242 $ 237,764,844 $ 3,135,953 $ 3,593,058 $ 108,295,992 $ 51,341,258 $ 440,340,347 Non Performing 219,509 9,730,477 1,862,038 1,258,710 10,737,033 2,368 23,810,135 Total $ 36,428,751 $ 247,495,321 $ 4,997,991 $ 4,851,768 $ 119,033,025 $ 51,343,626 $ 464,150,482 34 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table details the credit risk exposure of loans receivable, by loan type and credit quality indicator at December 31, 2011: CREDIT RISK PROFILE BY CREDITWORTHINESS CATEGORY Commercial Commercial Real Estate Construction Construction to Permanent Residential Real Estate Consumer LTVs: 75% = 75% 75% = 75% 75% = 75% 75% = 75% 75% = 75% 75% = 75% Other Total Internal Risk Rating Pass $ 23,822,200 $ 1,737,893 $ 151,392,526 $ 11,680,310 $ $ $ 903,035 $ $ 129,132,494 $ 34,895,858 $ 44,969,963 $ 1,531,223 636,863 $ 400,702,365 Special Mention 1,544,420 170,575 22,426,235 4,585,523 9,210,344 5,316,201 2,400,000 274,365 3,029,362 48,957,025 Substandard 4,480,440 55,207 15,981,747 9,593,496 1,243,579 1,852,999 9,108,987 3,587,607 12,776,695 1,417,742 60,098,499 $ 29,847,060 $ 1,963,675 $ 189,800,508 $ 25,859,329 $ 10,453,923 $ 1,852,999 $ 903,035 $ 9,108,987 $ 138,036,302 $ 50,072,553 $ 45,244,328 $ 5,978,327 $ 636,863 $ 509,757,889 CREDIT RISK PROFILE Commercial Commercial Real Estate Construction Construction to Permanent Residential Real Estate Consumer Totals Performing $ 31,521,175 $ 206,322,032 $ 10,928,343 $ 5,808,035 $ 183,629,363 $ 50,865,776 $ 489,074,724 Non Performing 289,560 9,337,805 1,378,579 4,203,987 4,479,492 993,742 20,683,165 Total $ 31,810,735 $ 215,659,837 $ 12,306,922 $ 10,012,022 $ 188,108,855 $ 51,859,518 $ 509,757,889 35 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table sets forth the detail, and delinquency status, of non-accrual loans and past due loans at December 31, 2012: Non-Accrual and Past Due Loans Non-Accrual Loans 2012 31-60 Days Past Due 61-90 Days Past Due Greater Than 90 Days Total Past Due Current 90 Days Past Due and Accruing Total Non- Accrual and Past Due Loans Commercial Pass $ $ $ $ $ $ 300,000 $ 300,000 Substandard 182,258 182,258 37,251 500,000 719,509 Total Commercial $ $ $ 182,258 $ 182,258 $ 37,251 $ 800,000 $ 1,019,509 Commercial Real Estate Pass $ $ $ $ $ $ 566,936 $ 566,936 Special Mention Substandard 7,629,819 7,629,819 2,100,658 867,361 10,597,838 Total Commercial Real Estate $ $ $ 7,629,819 $ 7,629,819 $ 2,100,658 $ 1,434,297 $ 11,164,774 Construction Substandard $ $ $ 1,862,038 $ 1,862,038 $ $ $ 1,862,038 Total Construction $ $ $ 1,862,038 $ 1,862,038 $ $ $ 1,862,038 Construction to Permanent Substandard $ $ $ $ $ 1,258,710 $ $ 1,258,710 Total Construction to Permanent $ $ $ $ $ 1,258,710 $ $ 1,258,710 Residential Real Estate Substandard $ $ 358,123 $ 10,231,542 $ 10,589,665 $ 147,368 $ $ 10,737,033 Total Residential Real Estate $ $ 358,123 $ 10,231,542 $ 10,589,665 $ 147,368 $ $ 10,737,033 Consumer Substandard $ $ $ $ $ 2,368 $ $ 2,368 Total Consumer $ $ $ $ $ 2,368 $ $ 2,368 Total $ $ 358,123 $ 19,905,657 $ 20,263,780 $ 3,546,355 $ 2,234,297 $ 26,044,432 36 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table sets forth the detail, and delinquency status, of non-accrual loans and past due loans at December 31, 2011: Non-Accrual and Past Due Loans Non-Accrual Loans 2011 31-60 Days Past Due 61-90 Days Past Due Greater Than 90 Days Total Past Due Current 90 Days Past Due and Accruing Total Non- Accrual and Past Due Loans Commercial Pass $ $ $ $ $ $ 44,296 $ 44,296 Substandard 289,560 289,560 947,847 1,237,407 Total Commercial $ $ $ 289,560 $ 289,560 $ $ 992,143 $ 1,281,703 Commercial Real Estate Pass $ $ $ $ $ $ 402,663 $ 402,663 Special Mention 2,832,452 2,832,452 Substandard 443,259 6,670,730 7,113,989 2,223,816 3,515,848 12,853,653 Total Commercial Real Estate $ $ 443,259 $ 6,670,730 $ 7,113,989 $ 2,223,816 $ 6,750,963 $ 16,088,768 Construction Substandard $ $ $ 135,000 $ 135,000 $ 1,243,579 $ 1,717,999 $ 3,096,578 Total Construction $ $ $ 135,000 $ 135,000 $ 1,243,579 $ 1,717,999 $ 3,096,578 Construction to Permanent Substandard $ $ $ $ $ 4,203,987 $ $ 4,203,987 Total Construction to Permanent $ $ $ $ $ 4,203,987 $ $ 4,203,987 Residential Real Estate Substandard $ $ $ 4,479,492 $ 4,479,492 $ $ $ 4,479,492 Total Residential Real Estate $ $ $ 4,479,492 $ 4,479,492 $ $ $ 4,479,492 Consumer Substandard $ $ $ 993,742 $ 993,742 $ $ $ 993,742 Total Consumer $ $ $ 993,742 $ 993,742 $ $ $ 993,742 Total $ $ 443,259 $ 12,568,524 $ 13,011,783 $ 7,671,382 $ 9,461,105 $ 30,144,270 37 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Included in loans receivable are loans for which the accrual of interest income has been discontinued due to deterioration in the financial condition of the borrowers. The recorded balance of these nonaccrual loans was $23.8 million and $20.7 million at December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011 respectively. Generally, loans are placed on non-accruing status when they become 90 days or more delinquent, and remain on non-accrual status until they are brought current, have six months of performance under the loan terms, and factors indicating reasonable doubt about the timely collection of payments no longer exist. Therefore, loans may be current in accordance with their loan terms, or may be less than 90 days delinquent and still be on a non-accruing status. Additionally, certain loans that cannot demonstrate sufficient global cash flow to continue loan payments in the future and certain troubled debt restructures (TDRs) are placed on non-accrual status. Loans past due ninety days or more, and still accruing interest, were $2.2 million and $9.5 million at December 31, 2012, and December 31, 2011 respectively. Four of the five loans as of December 31, 2012, totaling $1,667,000, were making payments, but past the loan s maturity date and were in the process of being renewed. The other loan totaling $567,000 was over 90 days past due as to payments and past the loan s maturity date, but was subsequently paid off. At December 31, 2011, ten of the thirteen loans totaling $4.9 million were current as to loan payments, but past the loan s maturity dates. Three loans totaling $4.6 million were over 30 days but under 60 days past due as to payments. 38 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table sets forth the detail and delinquency status of loans receivable, net, by performing and non-performing loans at December 31, 2012. Performing (Accruing) Loans 2012 31-60 Days Past Due 61-89 Days Past Due Total Past Due Current Total Loan Balances Total Non- Accrual and Past Due Loans Total Loans Receivable Commercial Pass $ 10,171 $ $ 10,171 $ 26,494,715 $ 26,504,886 $ 300,000 $ 26,804,886 Special Mention 7,399,006 7,399,006 7,399,006 Substandard 1,505,350 1,505,350 719,509 2,224,859 Total Commercial $ 10,171 $ $ 10,171 $ 35,399,071 $ 35,409,242 $ 1,019,509 $ 36,428,751 Commercial Real Estate Pass $ $ $ $ 211,765,042 $ 211,765,042 $ 566,936 $ 212,331,978 Special Mention 16,929,236 16,929,236 16,929,236 Substandard 7,636,269 7,636,269 10,597,838 18,234,107 Total Commercial Real Estate $ $ $ $ 236,330,547 $ 236,330,547 $ 11,164,774 $ 247,495,321 Construction Special Mention $ $ $ $ 3,135,953 $ 3,135,953 $ $ 3,135,953 Substandard 1,862,038 1,862,038 Total Construction $ $ $ $ 3,135,953 $ 3,135,953 $ 1,862,038 $ 4,997,991 Construction to Permanent Pass $ $ $ $ 3,593,058 $ 3,593,058 $ $ 3,593,058 Substandard 1,258,710 1,258,710 Total Construction to Permanent $ $ $ $ 3,593,058 $ 3,593,058 $ 1,258,710 $ 4,851,768 Residential Real Estate Pass $ 40,838 $ $ 40,838 $ 102,944,976 $ 102,985,814 $ $ 102,985,814 Special Mention 5,310,178 5,310,178 5,310,178 Substandard 10,737,033 10,737,033 Total Residential Real Estate $ 40,838 $ $ 40,838 $ 108,255,154 $ 108,295,992 $ 10,737,033 $ 119,033,025 Consumer Pass $ $ 12,443 $ 12,443 $ 50,608,110 $ 50,620,553 $ $ 50,620,553 Special Mention 662,705 662,705 662,705 Substandard 58,000 58,000 2,368 60,368 Total Consumer $ $ 12,443 $ 12,443 $ 51,328,815 $ 51,341,258 $ 2,368 $ 51,343,626 Total $ 51,009 $ 12,443 $ 63,452 $ 438,042,598 $ 438,106,050 $ 26,044,432 $ 464,150,482 39 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table sets forth the detail and delinquency status of loans receivable, net, by performing and non-performing loans at December 31, 2011. Performing (Accruing) Loans 2011 31-60 Days Past Due Greater Than 60 Days Total Past Due Current Total Loan Balances Total Non- Accrual and Past Due Loans Total Loans Receivable Commercial Pass $ 10,971 $ $ 10,971 $ 25,504,826 $ 25,515,797 $ 44,296 $ 25,560,093 Special Mention 1,714,995 1,714,995 1,714,995 Substandard 233,781 233,781 3,064,459 3,298,240 1,237,407 4,535,647 Total Commercial $ 244,752 $ $ 244,752 $ 30,284,280 $ 30,529,032 $ 1,281,703 $ 31,810,735 Commercial Real Estate Pass $ $ $ $ 162,670,173 $ 162,670,173 $ 402,663 $ 163,072,836 Special Mention 1,915,504 1,915,504 22,263,802 24,179,306 2,832,452 27,011,758 Substandard 12,721,590 12,721,590 12,853,653 25,575,243 Total Commercial Real Estate $ 1,915,504 $ $ 1,915,504 $ 197,655,565 $ 199,571,069 $ 16,088,768 $ 215,659,837 Construction Special Mention $ $ $ $ 9,210,344 $ 9,210,344 $ $ 9,210,344 Substandard 3,096,578 3,096,578 Total Construction $ $ $ $ 9,210,344 $ 9,210,344 $ 3,096,578 $ 12,306,922 Construction to Permanent Pass $ $ $ $ 903,035 $ 903,035 $ $ 903,035 Substandard 4,905,000 4,905,000 4,203,987 9,108,987 Total Construction to Permanent $ $ $ $ 5,808,035 $ 5,808,035 $ 4,203,987 $ 10,012,022 Residential Real Estate Pass $ 42,181 $ $ 42,181 $ 163,986,171 $ 164,028,352 $ $ 164,028,352 Special Mention 4,800,000 4,800,000 2,916,201 7,716,201 7,716,201 Substandard 84,225 84,225 11,800,585 11,884,810 4,479,492 16,364,302 Total Residential Real Estate $ 4,842,181 $ 84,225 $ 4,926,406 $ 178,702,957 $ 183,629,363 $ 4,479,492 $ 188,108,855 Consumer Pass $ 1,459 $ $ 1,459 $ 47,136,590 $ 47,138,049 $ $ 47,138,049 Special Mention 3,303,727 3,303,727 3,303,727 Substandard 424,000 424,000 993,742 1,417,742 Total Consumer $ 1,459 $ $ 1,459 $ 50,864,317 $ 50,865,776 $ 993,742 $ 51,859,518 Total $ 7,003,896 $ 84,225 $ 7,088,121 $ 472,525,498 $ 479,613,619 $ 30,144,270 $ 509,757,889 40 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table summarizes impaired loans as of December 31, 2012: Recorded Investment Unpaid Principal Balance Related Allowance 2012 With no related allowance recorded: Commercial $ 46,301 $ 131,195 $ Commercial Real Estate 12,328,103 13,369,985 Construction Construction to Permanent 1,258,710 1,425,000 Residential 10,760,965 12,786,388 Consumer 564,175 564,175 Total: $ 24,958,254 $ 28,276,743 $ With an allowance recorded: Commercial $ 173,208 $ 350,000 $ 33,280 Commercial Real Estate 3,581,000 3,606,947 728,607 Construction 1,862,038 2,013,663 120,616 Construction to Permanent Residential 2,806,210 2,806,766 83,543 Consumer 2,368 2,506 2,368 Total: $ 8,424,824 $ 8,779,882 $ 968,414 Commercial $ 219,509 $ 481,195 $ 33,280 Commercial Real Estate 15,909,103 16,976,932 728,607 Construction 1,862,038 2,013,663 120,616 Construction to Permanent 1,258,710 1,425,000 Residential 13,567,175 15,593,154 83,543 Consumer 566,543 566,681 2,368 Total: $ 33,383,078 $ 37,056,625 $ 968,414 Impaired loans consist of non-accrual loans, TDRs and loans that were previously classified as TDRs that have been upgraded. 41 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table summarizes impaired loans as of December 31, 2011: Recorded Investment Unpaid Principal Balance Related Allowance 2011 With no related allowance recorded: Commercial $ 210,091 $ 581,974 $ Commercial Real Estate 4,444,315 5,174,124 Construction 1,243,579 1,247,627 Construction to Permanent 6,614,333 6,614,333 Residential 9,789,727 9,789,727 Consumer 993,742 1,038,640 Total: $ 23,295,787 $ 24,446,425 $ With an allowance recorded: Commercial $ 79,469 $ 130,137 $ 61,145 Commercial Real Estate 5,131,655 5,354,025 319,894 Construction 135,000 286,625 31,520 Construction to Permanent 2,494,654 2,634,000 498,254 Residential 5,196,516 5,196,516 197,478 Consumer 424,000 424,000 151,500 Total: $ 13,461,294 $ 14,025,303 $ 1,259,791 Commercial $ 289,560 $ 712,111 $ 61,145 Commercial Real Estate 9,575,970 10,528,149 319,894 Construction 1,378,579 1,534,252 31,520 Construction to Permanent 9,108,987 9,248,333 498,254 Residential 14,986,243 14,986,243 197,478 Consumer 1,417,742 1,462,640 151,500 Total: $ 36,757,081 $ 38,471,728 $ 1,259,791 At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the recorded investment of impaired loans was $33.4 million and $36.8 million, with related allowances of $1.0 million and $1.3 million, respectively. Included in the tables above at December 31, 2012 and 2011, are loans with carrying balances of $25.0 million and $23.3 million respectively that required no specific reserves in our allowance for loan losses. Loans that did not require specific reserves have sufficient collateral values, less costs to sell, supporting the carrying balances of the loans. In some cases, there may be no specific reserves because the Company already charged-off the specific impairment. Once a borrower is in default, the Company is under no obligation to advance additional funds on unused commitments. 42 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 On a case-by-case basis, the Company may agree to modify the contractual terms of a borrower s loan to remain competitive and assist customers who may be experiencing financial difficulty, as well as preserve the Company s position in the loan. If the borrower is experiencing financial difficulties and a concession has been made at the time of such modification, the loan is classified as a troubled debt restructured loan. The following table presents the total troubled debt restructured loans as of December 31, 2012: Accrual Non-accrual Total # of # of # of Loans Amount Loans Amount Loans Amount Commercial Real Estate $ 2 $ 4,255,658 2 $ 4,255,658 Residential Real Estate 3 5,519,232 3 5,519,232 Construction to permanent 1 1,258,710 1 1,258,710 Commercial 1 37,251 1 37,251 Consumer home equity 1 564,175 1 564,175 Total Troubled Debt Restructurings 1 $ 564,175 7 $ 11,070,851 8 $ 11,635,026 The following table presents the total troubled debt restructured loans as of December 31, 2011: Accrual Non-accrual Total # of # of # of Loans Amount Loans Amount Loans Amount Commercial Real Estate 1 $ 238,165 3 $ 5,666,882 4 $ 5,905,047 Residential Real Estate 3 10,506,751 3 10,506,751 Construction 1 1,243,579 1 1,243,579 Construction to permanent 1 4,905,000 2 2,494,654 3 7,399,654 Consumer home equity 1 424,000 1 424,000 Total Troubled Debt Restructurings 6 $ 16,073,916 6 $ 9,405,115 12 $ 25,479,031 43 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table summarizes the six loans that were modified in a troubled debt restructuring during the year ended December 31, 2012. Twelve months ended December 31, 2012 Number of Relationships Pre-Modification Outstanding Recorded Investment Number of Relationships Post-Modification Outstanding Recorded Investment Troubled Debt Restructurings Residential Real Estate 3 $ 8,529,624 3 $ 5,524,800 Construction to permanent 1 4,905,000 Commercial 1 37,251 1 37,251 Consumer home equity 1 564,175 1 564,175 Total Troubled Debt Restructurings 6 $ 14,036,050 5 $ 6,126,226 The following table summarizes the eight loans that were modified in a troubled debt restructuring during the year ended December 31, 2011. Twelve months ended December 31, 2011 Number of Relationships Pre-Modification Outstanding Recorded Investment Number of Relationships Post-Modification Outstanding Recorded Investment Troubled Debt Restructurings Commercial Real Estate 2 $ 3,579,149 2 $ 2,461,981 Residential Real Estate 1 2,884,141 1 2,884,141 Construction to permanent 5 12,560,969 3 7,399,654 Total Troubled Debt Restructurings 8 $ 19,024,259 6 $ 12,745,776 Substantially all of our troubled debt restructured loan modifications involve lowering the monthly payments on such loans through either a reduction in interest rate below market rate, an extension of the term of the loan, or a combination of these two methods. These modifications rarely result in the forgiveness of principal or accrued interest. In addition, we frequently obtain additional collateral or guarantor support when modifying commercial loans. If the borrower had demonstrated performance under the previous terms and our underwriting process shows the borrower has the capacity to continue to perform under the restructured terms, the loan will continue to accrue interest. Non-accruing restructured loans may be returned to accrual status when there has been a sustained period of repayment performance (generally six consecutive months of payments) and both principal and interest are deemed collectible. 44 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 During the year ended December 31, 2012, four of the troubled debt restructured loans were upgraded and are no longer classified as troubled debt restructurings as compared to December 31, 2011. The upgrades, due to performance, were a commercial construction loan for $1.2 million where the bank received additional collateral, a commercial real estate loan for $234,000 due to increased cash flow generated from the borrower s business and a residential real estate loan for $2.8 million due to increased liquidity of the borrower. The fourth loan, a construction to permanent troubled debt restructured loan for $4.9 million was restructured into two loans, both of which have been upgraded. One loan was upgraded to pass, due to increased liquidity from additional tenants and is now classified as commercial real estate. The other loan for $1.1 million was upgraded to special mention, due to increased liquidity of the borrower. There was another troubled debt restructuring of a residential loan for $4.7 million that was upgraded to special mention due to increased liquidity of the borrower during the first quarter of 2012, which has since been downgraded to substandard, due to financial hardship of the borrower in the second quarter. Two troubled debt restructurings had a payment default, a commercial real estate loan which became an OREO in the second quarter and has since been sold, and a construction loan that is currently an OREO. There was one troubled debt restructuring of a residential loan for $364,000 due to the discharge from bankruptcy of the borrower. There were two troubled debt restructurings due to forbearance agreements of the borrowers, a commercial loan for $37,000 and a home equity installment loan for $564,000. There was an additional troubled debt restructuring for $500,000 due to foreclosure action of a residential real estate loan. The Bank obtained a judgment lien on another property of the borrower, resulting in additional collateral of $500,000. During the year ended December 31, 2011, there was one commercial real estate loan modified on March 31, 2011 for $3.3 million that released a guarantor having financial difficulty to allow the borrower to recapitalize and provide additional time in which to develop an exit plan to pay off the debt. The loan was reduced by a $1.0 million paydown that was applied to the specific reserve established in the second quarter. The impairment was eliminated and the $1.0 million was taken as a credit to the loan loss provision. In addition, during the year ended December 31, 2011, two of the troubled debt restructurings modified had a payment default. One default was a residential loan for $3.5 million and was subsequently sold as an OREO. The other default was a commercial construction loan for $1.1 million, and was sold as an OREO in 2012, after a charge-off of $255,000 in November 2011. 45 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 5. Premises and Equipment At December 31, 2012 and 2011, premises and equipment consisted of the following: 2012 2011 Leasehold improvements $ 6,356,657 $ 6,959,730 Furniture, equipment and software 6,591,500 6,458,878 Buildings 964,745 13,912,902 13,418,608 Less: accumulated depreciation and amortization (9,536,286 ) (9,310,290 ) $ 4,376,616 $ 4,108,318 For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, depreciation and amortization expense related to premises and equipment totaled $1,215,774, $1,272,660 and $1,498,334, respectively. Included in total premises and equipment above, approximately $88,000 is related to assets held for sale. Note 6. Other Real Estate Operations At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had other real estate owned of $4,873,844 and $2,762,640 respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, amounts charged to operations for other real estate owned totaled $(58,044), $877,969 and $2,286,948 respectively. A summary of other real estate operations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Expenses of holding other real estate owned $ 127,099 $ 918,291 $ 1,051,631 Impairment write-downs on other real estate owned 165,764 1,084,023 (Gain) loss on sale of other real estate owned (185,143 ) (193,786 ) 164,494 Rental income from other real estate owned (12,300 ) (13,200 ) Expense from other real estate operations $ (58,044 ) $ 877,969 $ 2,286,948 46 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 7. Deposits At December 31, 2012 and 2011, deposits consisted of the following: Weighted Weighted Average Average Interest Rate 2012 Interest Rate 2011 Non-interest bearing $ 65,176,125 $ 65,613,374 Interest bearing: Time certificates, less than $100,000 1.37 % 160,610,601 1.57 % 198,207,998 Time certificates, $100,000 or more 1.50 % 121,142,374 1.73 % 144,405,859 Money market 0.20 % 42,401,428 0.13 % 52,889,642 Savings 0.51 % 77,760,967 0.62 % 59,396,310 NOW 0.07 % 30,191,403 0.06 % 24,396,210 Total interest bearing 432,106,773 479,296,019 Total deposits $ 497,282,898 $ 544,909,393 Included in time certificates are certificates of deposit through the Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service (CDARS) network of $0 and $1,361,544 at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These are considered brokered deposits. Pursuant to the Agreement described in Note 17, the level of deposits accepted from Bank customers, and the Bank s participation in the CDARS program as an issuer of deposits to customers of other banks in the CDARS program, may not exceed 10% of total deposits. Included in total deposits above, approximately $24.7 million is related to deposits held for sale. 47 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Interest expense on deposits consists of the following: Year Ended December 31, 2012 2011 2010 Time certificates, less than $100,000 $ 2,706,666 $ 3,380,456 $ 5,761,993 Time certificates, $100,000 or more 2,225,726 2,567,071 3,961,176 Money market 71,808 88,813 891,710 Savings 330,842 235,628 489,176 NOW 16,435 11,610 74,738 $ 5,351,477 $ 6,283,578 $ 11,178,793 Contractual maturities of time certificates of deposit as of December 31, 2012 are summarized below: Weighted Average Interest Rate Due within: 1 year 1.09 % $ 203,941,972 1-2 years 2.68 % 46,561,996 2-3 years 2.17 % 17,080,107 3-4 years 1.67 % 5,615,039 4-5 years 1.58 % 8,553,861 1.45 % $ 281,752,975 Note 8. Borrowings Federal Home Loan Bank borrowings The Bank is a member of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston ( FHLB ). At December 31, 2012, the Bank has the ability to borrow from the FHLB based on a certain percentage of the value of the Bank s qualified collateral, as defined in the FHLB Statement of Products Policy, comprised mainly of mortgage-backed securities and loans delivered under collateral safekeeping to the FHLB at the time of the borrowing. The additional amount available under this agreement as of December 31, 2012 was $65,000,000. In accordance with an agreement with the FHLB, the qualified collateral must be free and clear of liens, pledges and encumbrances. In addition, the Company has a $2,000,000 available line of credit with the FHLB. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, there were no advances outstanding under this line of credit. During the fourth quarter of 2011, $30,000,000 of FHLB advances with interest rates ranging from 2.49% to 3.94%, were restructured. The restructured advances allowed the Company to reduce the effective interest rates, ranging from 2.20% to 2.86%, and to extend the maturities for two years, in accordance with ASC 470-50, Debt Modifications and Extinguishments . At December 31, 2012 and 2011, outstanding advances from the FHLB aggregated $50,000,000 with interest rates ranging from 1.17% to 3.69%. 48 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Repurchase agreements At both December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had $7,000,000 of securities sold under agreements to repurchase bearing interest at a fixed rate of 4.3475%. Junior subordinated debt owed to unconsolidated trust During 2003, the Company formed the Trust of which 100% of the Trust s common securities are owned by the Company. The Trust has no independent assets, and exists for the sole purpose of issuing trust securities and investing the proceeds thereof in an equivalent amount of junior subordinated debentures issued by the Company. The Trust issued $8,000,000 of trust preferred securities in 2003. Trust preferred securities currently qualify for up to 25% of the Company s Tier I Capital, with the excess qualifying as Tier 2 Capital. On March 1, 2005, the Federal Reserve Board of Governors, which is the banking regulator for the Holding Company, approved final rules that allowed for the continued inclusion of outstanding and prospective issuances of trust preferred securities in regulatory capital, subject to new, stricter limitations, which became effective March 31, 2009 and had no impact on the Company. The subordinated debentures of $8,248,000 are unsecured obligations of the Company and are subordinate and junior in right of payment to all present and future senior indebtedness of the Company. The Company has entered into a guarantee, which together with its obligations under the subordinated debentures and the declaration of trust governing the Trust, including its obligations to pay costs, expenses, debts and liabilities, other than trust securities, provides a full and unconditional guarantee of amounts on the capital securities. The subordinated debentures, which bear interest at the three-month LIBOR plus 3.15% (3.460000% at December 31, 2012), mature on March 26, 2033. Beginning in the second quarter of 2009, the Company began deferring interest payments on the subordinated debentures as permitted under the terms of the debentures. Interest is still being accrued and charged to operations. The Company may only defer the payment of interest for 20 consecutive quarters, or thru March, 2014, and all accrued interest must be paid at the completion of the deferral period, June 2014. The duration of the Trust is 30 years, with an early redemption feature at the Company s option on a quarterly basis which commenced March 26, 2008. The Trust securities also bear interest at the three month LIBOR plus 3.15%. 49 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Maturity of borrowings The contractual maturities of the Company s borrowings at December 31, 2012, by year, are as follows: Fixed Floating Rate Rate Total 2013 $ $ $ 2014 10,000,000 10,000,000 2015 30,000,000 30,000,000 2016 2017 7,000,000 7,000,000 Thereafter 10,000,000 8,248,000 18,248,000 Total borrowings $ 57,000,000 $ 8,248,000 $ 65,248,000 Note 9. Commitments and Contingencies Operating leases The Company has non-cancelable operating leases for its main office, ten other branch banking offices and additional space for administrative and operational activities, which expire on various dates through 2027. Most of the leases contain rent escalation provisions, as well as renewal options for one or more periods. Under these lease agreements, the Company is required to pay certain executory costs such as insurance and property taxes. The Company also leases parking space under a non-cancelable operating lease agreement and certain equipment under cancelable and non-cancelable arrangements. Included in the table below, $574,782 of operating lease commitments have already been accounted for and included in restructuring charges and asset disposals in the consolidated financial statements for four branches that were closed. 50 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Future minimum rental commitments under the terms of these leases by year and in the aggregate, are as follows: Years Ending December 31, Amount 2013 $ 2,396,941 2014 2,228,457 2015 1,647,052 2016 1,069,645 2017 542,972 Thereafter 3,917,502 $ 11,802,569 Total rental expense, which is charged to operations on a straight line basis, for cancelable and non-cancelable operating leases was $2,531,929 $2,838,066 and $3,239,518 for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. The Company subleases excess space at two locations. Income from subleases included in non-interest expense was $54,846, $33,326 and $26,715 for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. Employment Agreements The Company has three change of control agreements that entitle executive officers to receive up to two and one-half times the greater of the officer s base salary at the time or total compensation for the most recently completed fiscal year if a change of control occurs while such officers are full time employees of the Company or within six months following termination of employment other than for cause or by reason of death or disability. Legal Matters Neither the Company nor the Bank has any pending legal proceedings, other than ordinary routine litigation, incidental to its business, to which the Company or the Bank is a party or any of its property is subject. Management and its legal counsel are of the opinion that the ultimate disposition of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. 51 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 10. Income Taxes The components of the income tax provision (benefit) for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Current Federal $ $ $ State 225,000 Total 225,000 Deferred Federal State Total Provision (benefit) for income taxes $ $ $ 225,000 A reconciliation of the anticipated income tax benefit (computed by applying the statutory Federal income tax rate of 34% to loss before income taxes) to the income tax provision (benefit) as reported in the statements of operations for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Benefit for income taxes at statutory Federal rate $ (182,296 ) $ (5,256,200 ) $ (5,159,100 ) State taxes, net of Federal benefit 148,500 Dividends received deduction (50,100 ) (44,900 ) Nondeductible expenses 4,570 5,900 8,600 Write-off of DTA due to 382 Limitation 10,382,276 Change in cash surrender value of life insurance (175,814 ) (216,300 ) (213,000 ) (Decrease) increase in valuation allowance 329,113 (4,853,660 ) 5,452,116 Other 24,427 (11,916 ) 32,784 Total provision (benefit) for income taxes $ $ $ 225,000 52 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to the Company s deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Deferred tax assets: Allowance for loan losses $ 2,343,090 $ 3,655,330 $ 5,988,212 Nonaccrual interest 1,324,824 774,233 5,125,083 Investment impairment charges 1,227,083 Premises and equipment 1,073,884 1,090,095 1,128,094 Accrued expenses 224,523 405,108 224,941 Share-based Compensation 72,456 Capital loss carryover 572,301 572,301 State NOL carryforward benefit 3,237,434 3,081,579 1,359,435 Federal NOL carryforward benefit 5,467,942 14,755,699 2,901,965 NOL write-off for 382 Limitation (10,382,276 ) Federal AMT benefit estimate 317,704 317,704 317,704 Unrealized loss AFS 250,819 Other 153,959 144,809 203,071 Gross deferred tax assets 15,038,936 14,414,582 18,475,588 Valuation allowance (15,038,936 ) (14,414,582 ) (18,466,961 ) Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance 8,627 Deferred tax liabilities Investment securities (82,337 ) (795,169 ) Other (8,627 ) Gross deferred tax liabilities (82,337 ) (803,796 ) Deferred tax liability, net $ $ (82,337 ) $ (795,169 ) The net deferred tax liability at December 31, 2012 and 2011 is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities in the consolidated balance sheets. 53 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The allocation of the deferred tax (benefit) provision items charged to operations and items charged directly to equity for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 are as follows: 2012 2011 2010 Deferred tax (benefit) provision allocated to equity $ $ (712,832 ) $ 291,768 Deferred tax provision allocated to operations Total deferred tax (benefit) provision $ $ (712,832 ) $ 291,768 The determination of the amount of deferred income tax assets which are more likely than not to be realized is primarily dependent on projections of future earnings, which are subject to uncertainty and estimates that may change given economic conditions and other factors. A valuation allowance related to deferred tax assets is required when it is considered more likely than not that all or part of the benefit related to such assets will not be realized. Management has reviewed the deferred tax position of the Company at December 31, 2012. The deferred tax position has been affected by several significant transactions in prior years. These transactions include increased provision for loan losses, the levels of non-accrual loans and other-than-temporary impairment write-offs of certain investments, as well as a loss on the bulk sale of loans in 2011. As a result, the Company is in a cumulative net loss position at December 31, 2012, and under the applicable accounting guidance, has concluded that it is not more-likely-than-not that the Company will be able to realize its deferred tax assets and, accordingly, has established a full valuation allowance totaling $15.0 million against its deferred tax asset at December 31, 2012. The valuation allowance is analyzed quarterly for changes affecting the deferred tax asset. If, in the future, the Company generates taxable income on a sustained basis, management s conclusion regarding the need for a deferred tax asset valuation allowance could change, resulting in the reversal of all or a portion of the deferred tax asset valuation allowance. As measured under the rules of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, the Company has undergone a greater than 50% change of ownership in 2010. Consequently, use of the Company s net operating loss carryforward and certain built in deductions available against future taxable income in any one year are limited. The maximum amount of carryforwards available in a given year is limited to the product of the Company s fair market value on the date of ownership change and the federal long-term tax-exempt rate, plus any limited carryforward not utilized in prior years. The Company has analyzed the impact of its recent ownership change and has calculated the annual limitation under IRC 382 to be $284,000. Based on the analysis, the Company has determined that the pre-change net operating losses and net unrealized built-in deductions were approximately $36.2 million. Based on a 20 year carryforward period, the Company could utilize approximately $5.6 million of the pre-change net operating losses and built-in deductions. Therefore, the Company wrote-off approximately $10.4 million of deferred tax assets in 2011. Accordingly, the write-off of the deferred tax asset did not affect the consolidated financial statements as there was a full valuation allowance against the deferred tax asset. 54 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 11. Other intangible assets The changes in the carrying amount of core deposit intangibles for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 are as follows: 2012 2011 Core Deposit Intangible: Balance as of January 1, $ 38,196 $ 53,208 Amortization expense 6,962 15,012 Asset disposal 31,234 Balance as of December 31, 38,196 Total other intangible assets $ $ 38,196 Amortization expense for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $6,962, $15,012 and $15,900, respectively. The asset disposal of $31,234 was part of the consolidation of branches and is included in restructuring charges and asset disposals on the consolidated financial statements. Note 12. Cash Surrender Value of Life Insurance The Bank has an investment in, and is the beneficiary of, life insurance policies. The purpose of these life insurance investments is to provide income through the appreciation in the cash surrender value of the policies on the lives of certain officers, directors and employees of the Bank. These policies have an aggregate cash surrender value of $21,501,703 and $20,984,604 at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. These assets are unsecured and maintained in a separate account with one insurance carrier. Income earned on these life insurance policies aggregated $517,099, $636,272 and $546,910 for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, and is included in non-interest income. 55 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 13. Share-Based Compensation The Company maintains the Patriot National Bancorp, Inc. 2012 Stock Plan to provide an incentive to directors and employees of the Company by the grant of options, restricted stock awards or phantom stock units. The Plan provides for the issuance of up to 3,000,000 shares of the Company s common stock subject to certain Plan limitations. 2,032,613 shares of stock remain available for issuance under the Plan as of December 31, 2012. The vesting of restricted stock awards and options may be accelerated in accordance with terms of the plan. The Compensation Committee shall make terms and conditions applicable to the vesting of restricted stock awards and stock options. Restricted stock grants are available only to directors and vest in quarterly installments over a four year period from the date of grant. The Compensation Committee accelerated the vesting of the initial grant of restricted stock, whereby the first year of the tranche vested immediately. During the third quarter, four Bank directors retired and the Compensation Committee voted to fully vest their remaining shares of restricted stock immediately, which resulted in compensation expense of approximately $43,000. Stock options were granted at an exercise price equal to $2.20 based on a price determined by the Compensation Committee and all have an expiration period of 10 years. The fair value of stock options granted on January 24, 2012, was estimated utilizing the Black-Scholes option pricing model using the following assumptions: an expected life of 6.28 years utilizing the simplified method, risk-free rate of return of 1.28%, volatility of 61.29% and no dividend yield. The Company is expensing the grant date fair value of all share-based compensation over the requisite vesting periods on a straight-line basis. For the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company recorded $306,421 and $0 of total stock-based compensation, respectively. During 2012, there were no options exercised and 117,387 shares of restricted stock were issued to directors in payment of directors fees in the amount of $120,397. There were no awards in 2011. The following table is a summary of the Company s non-vested stock options as of December 31, 2012, and changes therein during the period then ended: Number of Stock Options Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value Weighted Average Exercise Price Weighted Average Contractual Life (years) Outstanding December 31, 2011 $ $ Granted 850,000 0.90 2.20 10 Exercised Outstanding December 31, 2012 850,000 $ 0.90 $ 2.20 10 Exercisable December 31, 2012 207,500 $ $ There is no future stock option expense related to the non-vested options outstanding as of December 31, 2012, due to the subsequent event described in Note 23. The following is a summary of the status of the Company s restricted shares as of December 31, 2012, and changes therein during the period then ended. 56 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Number of Shares Awarded Weighted Average Grant Date Fair Value Non-vested at December 31, 2011 $ Granted 152,169 1.69 Vested (72,821 ) 1.65 Forfeited (34,782 ) 1.73 Non-vested at December 31, 2012 44,566 $ 1.73 Expected future stock award expense related to the non-vested restricted awards as of December 31, 2012, is $76,876 over an average period of 2.61 years. Note 14. Shareholders Equity Common Stock On December 16, 2009, the Company entered into a Securities Purchase Agreement (the Securities Purchase Agreement ) with the Bank and PNBK Holdings, LLC, a limited liability company controlled by Michael Carrazza ( Holdings ). Pursuant to the Securities Purchase Agreement, on October 15, 2010, the Company issued and sold to Holdings 33,600,000 shares of its common stock at a purchase price of $1.50 per share for an aggregate purchase price of $50,400,000. The shares sold to Holdings represent 87.6% of the Company s current issued and outstanding common stock. Also in connection with that sale, certain directors and officers of both the Company and the Bank resigned and were replaced with nominees of Holdings and Michael Carrazza became Chairman of the Board of the Company. In connection with that sale, the Company reduced the par value of its common stock to $0.01 per share and increased the number of its authorized common shares to 100,000,000. Also in connection with that sale, the Company entered into a Registration Rights Agreement with Holdings. The Registration Rights Agreement provides Holdings with customary demand, shelf and piggyback registration rights. The Bank is currently party to an agreement with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ), which restricts the Bank s ability to pay dividends without the consent of the OCC. To date, the OCC has not consented to the Bank paying any dividends. In addition, the Company is party to an agreement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York which also restricts the ability of the Company to pay dividends. 57 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Loss Per Share The following tables represent information about the computation of basic and diluted loss per share for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010: 2012 Net Loss Weighted Average Common Shares O/S Per Share Amount Basic and Diluted Loss Per Share Loss attributable to common shareholders $ (536,164 ) 38,401,889 $ (0.01 ) 2011 Net Weighted Average Per Share Loss Common Shares O/S Amount Basic and Diluted Loss Per Share Loss attributable to common shareholders $ (15,459,486 ) 38,362,727 $ (0.40 ) 2010 Net Weighted Average Per Share Loss Common Shares O/S Amount Basic and Diluted Loss Per Share Loss attributable to common shareholders $ (15,398,945 ) 11,850,946 $ (1.30 ) For the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, there were no dilutive securities. Note 15. 401(k) Savings Plan The Company offers employees participation in the Patriot National Bank 401(k) Savings Plan (the 401(k) Plan ) under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. The 401(k) Plan covers substantially all employees who have completed six months of service, are 21 years of age and who elect to participate. Under the terms of the 401(k) Plan, participants can contribute up to the maximum amount allowed, subject to Federal limitations. The Company may make discretionary matching contributions of 50% up to 6% of the participants salary to the 401(k) Plan. Participants are immediately vested in their contributions and the Company s contributions. The Company contributed approximately $160,000, $201,000 and $206,000 to the 401(k) Plan in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 58 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 16. Financial Instruments with Off-Balance-Sheet Risk In the normal course of business, the Company is a party to financial instruments with off-balance-sheet risk to meet the financing needs of its customers. These financial instruments include commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit and involve, to varying degrees, elements of credit and interest rate risk in excess of the amounts recognized in the balance sheets. The contractual amounts of these instruments reflect the extent of involvement the Company has in particular classes of financial instruments. The contractual amounts of commitments to extend credit and standby letters of credit represent the amounts of potential accounting loss should: the contract be fully drawn upon; the customer default; and the value of any existing collateral becomes worthless. The Company uses the same credit policies in making commitments and conditional obligations as it does for on-balance-sheet instruments and evaluates each customer s creditworthiness on a case-by-case basis. Management believes that the Company controls the credit risk of these financial instruments through credit approvals, credit limits, monitoring procedures and the receipt of collateral as deemed necessary. Financial instruments whose contract amounts represent credit risk are as follows at December 31, 2012 and 2011: 2012 2011 Commitments to extend credit: Future loan commitments $ 16,601,019 $ 91,250,740 Home equity lines of credit 30,044,312 28,947,854 Unused lines of credit 39,652,231 17,877,138 Undisbursed construction loans 3,233,322 1,796,965 Financial standby letters of credit 7,000 532,000 $ 89,537,884 $ 140,404,697 Standby letters of credit are written commitments issued by the Company to guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party. The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit is essentially the same as that involved in extending loan facilities to customers. Guarantees that are not derivative contracts have been recorded on the Company s consolidated balance sheet at their fair value at inception. Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any condition established in the contract. Commitments to extend credit generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee by the borrower. Since these commitments could expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. The amount of collateral obtained, if deemed necessary by the Company upon extension of credit, is based on management s credit evaluation of the counterparty. Collateral held varies, but may include residential and commercial property, deposits and securities. The bank has established a reserve of $5,000 and $44,000 as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011, respectively. 59 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 17. Regulatory and Operational Matters The Company and the Bank are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by the federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the Company s financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Company and the Bank must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the Company s and the Bank s assets, liabilities, and certain off-balance-sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices. The Company s and the Bank s capital amounts and classification are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings, and other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require the Company and the Bank to maintain minimum amounts and ratios (set forth in the table below) of total and Tier I capital (as defined in the regulations) to risk-weighted assets (as defined), and of Tier I capital (as defined) to average assets (as defined). In addition, due to the Bank s asset profile and current economic conditions in its markets, the Bank s capital plan pursuant to the Agreement described below does target a minimum 9% Tier 1 leverage capital ratio. In February 2009 the Bank entered into a formal written agreement (the Agreement ) with the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Under the terms of the Agreement, the Bank has appointed a Compliance Committee of outside directors and the Chief Executive Officer. The Committee must report quarterly to the Board of Directors and to the OCC on the Bank s progress in complying with the Agreement. The Agreement requires the Bank to review, adopt and implement a number of policies and programs related to credit and operational issues. The Agreement further provides for limitations on the acceptance of certain brokered deposits and the extension of credit to borrowers whose loans are criticized. The Bank may pay dividends during the term of the Agreement only with prior written permission from the OCC. The Agreement also requires that the Bank develop and implement a three-year capital plan. The Bank has taken or put into process all of the steps required by the Agreement, and does not anticipate that the restrictions included within the Agreement will impair its current business plan. 60 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 In June 2010 the company entered into a formal written agreement (the Reserve Bank Agreement ) with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (the Reserve Bank ). Under the terms of the Reserve Bank Agreement, the Board of Directors of the Company are required to take appropriate steps to fully utilize the Company s financial and managerial resources to serve as a source of strength to the Bank including taking steps to insure that the Bank complies with the Agreement with the OCC. The Reserve Bank Agreement requires the Company to submit, adopt and implement a capital plan that is acceptable to the Reserve Bank. The Company must also report to the Reserve Bank quarterly on the Company s progress in complying with the Reserve Bank Agreement. The Agreement further provides for certain restrictions on the payment or receipt of dividends, distributions of interest or principal on subordinate debentures or trust preferred securities and the Company s ability to incur debt or to purchase or redeem its stock without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank. The Company has taken or put into process all of the steps required by the Reserve Bank Agreement, and does not anticipate that the restrictions included within the Reserve Bank Agreement will impair its current business plan. The Company s and the Bank s actual capital amounts and ratios at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were (dollars in thousands): For Capital To Be Well Capitalized Under Prompt Corrective Actual Adequacy Purposes Action Provisions 2012 Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio The Company: Total Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) $ 63,253 15.64 % $ 49,447 8.00 % $ N/A N/A Tier 1 Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) 58,186 14.39 % 24,724 4.00 % N/A N/A Tier 1 Capital (to Average Assets) 58,186 9.33 % 24,948 4.00 % N/A N/A The Bank: Total Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) $ 61,908 15.31 % $ 49,447 8.00 % $ 61,808 10.00 % Tier 1 Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) 56,840 14.05 % 24,723 4.00 % 37,085 6.00 % Tier 1 Capital (to Average Assets) 56,840 9.11 % 24,952 4.00 % 31,190 5.00 % 61 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Actual For Capital Adequacy Purposes To Be Well Capitalized Under Prompt Corrective Action Provisions 2011 Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio The Company: Total Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) $ 63,658 15.22 % $ 33,469 8.00 % $ N/A N/A Tier 1 Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) 58,377 13.95 % 16,735 4.00 % N/A N/A Tier 1 Capital (to Average Assets) 58,377 9.01 % 25,931 4.00 % N/A N/A The Bank: Total Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) $ 61,616 14.75 % $ 33,445 8.00 % $ 41,806 10.00 % Tier 1 Capital (to Risk Weighted Assets) 56,339 13.48 % 16,722 4.00 % 25,084 6.00 % Tier 1 Capital (to Average Assets) 56,339 8.69 % 25,929 4.00 % 32,411 5.00 % Restrictions on dividends, loans and advances The Company s ability to pay dividends is dependent on the Bank s ability to pay dividends to the Company. Pursuant to the February 9, 2009 Agreement between the Bank and the OCC, the Bank can pay dividends to the Company only pursuant to a dividend policy requiring compliance with the Bank s OCC-approved capital program, in compliance with applicable law and with the prior written determination of no supervisory objection by the Assistant Deputy Comptroller. In addition to the Agreement, certain other restrictions exist regarding the ability of the Bank to transfer funds to the Company in the form of cash dividends, loans or advances. The approval of the OCC is required to pay dividends in excess of the Bank s earnings retained in the current year plus retained net earnings for the preceding two years. As of December 31, 2012, the Bank had an accumulated deficit; therefore, dividends may not be paid to the Company. The Bank is also prohibited from paying dividends that would reduce its capital ratios below minimum regulatory requirements. The Company s ability to pay dividends and incur debt is also restricted by the Reserve Bank Agreement. Under the terms of the Reserve Bank Agreement, the Company has agreed that it shall not declare or pay any dividends or incur, increase or guarantee any debt without the prior written approval of the Reserve Bank and the Director of the Division of Banking Supervision and Regulation (the Director ) of the Board of Governors. Loans or advances to the Company from the Bank are limited to 10% of the Bank s capital stock and surplus on a secured basis. 62 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Recent Legislative Developments The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 (the Act ) was signed into law on July 21, 2010. The Act is a significant piece of legislation that will continue to have a major impact on the financial services industry, including the organization, financial condition and operations of banks and bank holding companies. Management continues to evaluate the impact of the Act; however, uncertainty remains as to its operational impact, which could have a material adverse impact on the Company s business, results of operations and financial condition. Many of the provisions of the Act are aimed at financial institutions that are significantly larger than the Company and the Bank. Notwithstanding this, there are many other provisions that the Company and the Bank are subject to and will have to comply with, including any new rules applicable to the Company and the Bank promulgated by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, a new regulatory body dedicated to consumer protection. As rules and regulations are promulgated by the agencies responsible for implementing and enforcing the Act, the Company and the Bank will have to address each to ensure compliance with applicable provisions of the Act and compliance costs are expected to increase. The Dodd-Frank Act broadens the base for Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation insurance assessments. Under rules issued by the FDIC in February 2011, the base for insurance assessments changed from domestic deposits to consolidated assets less tangible equity. Assessment rates are calculated using formulas that take into account the risks of the institution being assessed. The rule was effective beginning April 1, 2011. This did not have a material impact on the Company. On June 28, 2011, the Federal Reserve Board approved a final debit-card interchange rule. This primarily impacts larger banks and has not had a material impact on the Company. It is difficult to predict at this time what specific impact the Dodd-Frank Act and the yet to be written implementing rules and regulations will have on the Company. The financial reform legislation and any implementing rules that are ultimately issued could have adverse implications on the financial industry, the competitive environment, and our ability to conduct business. Management will have to apply resources to ensure compliance with all applicable provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and any implementing rules, which may increase our costs of operations and adversely impact our earnings. Note 18. Related Party Transactions In the normal course of business, the Company grants loans to executive officers, directors and members of their immediate families, as defined, and to entities in which these individuals have more than a 10% equity ownership. Such loans are transacted at terms, including interest rates, similar to those available to unrelated customers. 63 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Changes in loans outstanding to such related parties during 2012 and 2011 are as follows: 2012 2011 Balance, beginning of year $ 2,068,939 $ 3,514,460 Additional Loans 483 7,012 Repayments (2,069,300 ) (1,452,533 ) Balance, end of year $ 122 $ 2,068,939 Related party deposits aggregated approximately $3,224,946 and $3,520,901 as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Company leased office space to a director of the Company under one lease during 2012 and at December 31, 2011 and under two leases in 2010. Rental income under these leases for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, was approximately $15,266, $25,601 and $26,700 respectively. During 2012, the Company paid legal fees of approximately $3,725 to an attorney who was a director of the Company during 2012. The Company paid legal fees of approximately $75 for his services during 2011. During 2010, the Company did not have a need for his legal services. As of December 31, 2012, the Company has approximately $39,000 of receivables due from an affiliate for rent paid on its behalf. 64 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 19. Other Comprehensive Income Other comprehensive income, which is comprised solely of the change in unrealized gains and losses on available for sale securities, is as follows: 2012 Before Tax Amount Tax Effect Net of Tax Amount Unrealized holding gains arising during the period $ 76,135 $ (28,931 ) $ 47,204 Less reclassification adjustment for gains recognized in income (910,591 ) 111,268 (799,323 ) Unrealized holding losses on available for sale securities $ (834,456 ) $ 82,337 $ (752,119 ) 2011 Before Tax Amount Tax Effect Net of Tax Amount Unrealized holding losses arising during the period $ (766,569 ) $ 291,296 $ (475,273 ) Less reclassification adjustment for gains recognized in income (1,109,305 ) 421,536 (687,769 ) Unrealized holding losses on available for sale securities $ (1,875,874 ) $ 712,832 $ (1,163,042 ) 2010 Before Tax Amount Tax Effect Net of Tax Amount Unrealized holding gains arising during the period $ 767,812 $ (291,768 ) $ 476,044 Unrealized holding gains on available for sale securities $ 767,812 $ (291,768 ) $ 476,044 65 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 20. Fair Value and Interest Rate Risk As described in Note 1, the Company used fair value measurements to record fair value adjustments to certain assets and liabilities and to determine fair value disclosures. A description of the valuation methodologies used for assets and liabilities recorded at fair value, and for estimating fair value for financial and non-financial instruments not recorded at fair value, is set forth below. Cash and due from banks, federal funds sold, short-term investments and accrued interest receivable and payable: The carrying amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value. These financial instruments are not recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Available-for-Sale Securities: These financial instruments are recorded at fair value in the financial statements. Where quoted prices are available in an active market, securities are classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. If quoted prices are not available, then fair values are estimated by using pricing models (i.e., matrix pricing) or quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics and are classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. Examples of such instruments include U.S. government agency bonds and mortgage-backed securities, corporate bonds and money market preferred equity securities. The prices for these instruments are obtained through an independent pricing service or dealer market participants with whom the Company has historically transacted both purchases and sales of investment securities. Prices obtained from these sources include prices derived from market quotations and matrix pricings. The fair value measurements considered observable data may include dealer quotes, market spreads, cash flows, the U.S. Treasury yield curve, live trading execution data, market consensus prepayment speeds, credit information and the bond s terms and conditions, among other things. Management reviews the data and assumptions used in pricing the securities by its third party provider to ensure the highest level of significant inputs are derived from market observable data. Level 3 securities are instruments for which significant unobservable input are utilized. Available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value on a recurring basis. Loans: For variable rate loans, which reprice frequently and have no significant change in credit risk, carrying values are a reasonable estimate of fair values, adjusted for credit losses inherent in the portfolios. The fair value of fixed rate loans is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using the period end rates, estimated by using local market data, at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same remaining maturities, adjusted for credit losses inherent in the portfolios. The Company does not record loans at fair value on a recurring basis. However, from time to time, nonrecurring fair value adjustments to collateral-dependent impaired loans are recorded to reflect partial write-downs based on the observable market price or current appraised value of collateral. Fair values estimated in this manner do not fully incorporate an exit-price approach to fair value, but instead are based on a comparison to current market rates for comparable loans. Other Real Estate Owned: The fair value of the Company s OREO properties is based on the estimated current property valuations less estimated selling costs. When the fair value is based on current observable appraised values, OREO is classified within Level 2. The Company classifies the OREO within Level 3 when unobservable adjustments are made to appraised values. The Company does not record other real estate owned at fair value on a recurring basis. 66 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Deposits: The fair value of demand deposits, regular savings and certain money market deposits is the amount payable on demand at the reporting date. The fair value of certificates of deposit and other time deposits is estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies interest rates currently being offered for deposits of similar remaining maturities, estimated using local market data, to a schedule of aggregated expected maturities on such deposits. The Company does not record deposits at fair value on a recurring basis. Short-term borrowings: The carrying amounts of borrowings under short-term repurchase agreements and other short-term borrowings maturing within 90 days approximate their fair values. The Company does not record short-term borrowings at fair value on a recurring basis. Junior Subordinated Debt: Junior subordinated debt reprices quarterly and as a result the carrying amount is considered a reasonable estimate of fair value. The Company does not record junior subordinated debt at fair value on a recurring basis. Federal Home Loan Bank Borrowings: The fair value of the advances is estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies current Federal Home Loan Bank interest rates for advances of similar maturity to a schedule of maturities of such advances. The Company does not record these borrowings at fair value on a recurring basis. Other Borrowings: The fair values of longer term borrowings and fixed rate repurchase agreements are estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that applies current interest rates for transactions of similar maturity to a schedule of maturities of such transactions. The Company does not record these borrowings at fair value on a recurring basis. Off-balance sheet instruments: Fair values for the Company s off-balance-sheet instruments (lending commitments) are based on interest rate changes and fees currently charged to enter into similar agreements, taking into account the remaining terms of the agreements and the counterparties credit standing. The Company does not record its off-balance-sheet instruments at fair value on a recurring basis. 67 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table details the financial assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, and indicates the fair value hierarchy of the valuation techniques utilized by the Company to determine fair value: December 31, 2012 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1) Significant Observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) Balance as of December 31, 2012 Corporate bonds $ $ 8,486,259 $ $ 8,486,259 U.S. Government agency mortgage-backed securities 25,706,891 25,706,891 U.S. Government agency bonds 7,526,170 7,526,170 Securities available for sale $ $ 41,719,320 $ $ 41,719,320 December 31, 2011 Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1) Significant Observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) Balance as of December 31, 2011 Corporate bonds $ $ 11,383,458 $ $ 11,383,458 U.S. Government agency mortgage-backed securities 50,049,429 50,049,429 U.S. Government bonds 5,037,085 5,037,085 Securities available for sale $ $ 66,469,972 $ $ 66,469,972 Certain financial assets and financial liabilities are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis; that is, the instruments are not measured at fair value on an ongoing basis but are subject to fair value adjustments in certain circumstances (for example, when there is evidence of impairment). 68 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following table reflects assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, segregated by the level of the valuation inputs within the fair value hierarchy utilized to measure fair value: Quoted Prices in Active Markets for Identical Assets (Level 1) Significant Observable Inputs (Level 2) Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) Balance December 31, 2012 Impaired Loans (1) $ $ $ 8,424,786 $ 8,424,786 Other real estate owned (2) $ $ $ 4,873,844 $ 4,873,844 December 31, 2011 Impaired Loans (1) $ $ $ 13,498,177 $ 13,498,177 Other real estate owned (2) $ $ $ 2,762,640 $ 2,762,640 (1) Represents carrying value for which adjustments are based on the appraised value of the collateral. (2) Represents carrying value for which adjustments are based on the appraised value of the property. The Company discloses fair value information about financial instruments, whether or not recognized in the consolidated balance sheet, for which it is practicable to estimate that value. Certain financial instruments are excluded from disclosure requirements and, accordingly, the aggregate fair value amounts presented do not represent the underlying value of the Company. The estimated fair value amounts have been measured as of December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 and have not been reevaluated or updated for purposes of these financial statements subsequent to those respective dates. As such, the estimated fair values of these financial instruments subsequent to the respective reporting dates may be different than amounts reported on those dates. The information presented should not be interpreted as an estimate of the fair value of the Company since a fair value calculation is only required for a limited portion of the Company s assets and liabilities. Due to the wide range of valuation techniques and the degree of subjectivity used in making the estimates, comparisons between the Company s disclosures and those of other bank holding companies may not be meaningful. 69 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 The following is a summary of the carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company s financial instruments not measured and not reported at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2012 and 2011 (in thousands): 2012 2011 Fair Value Hierarchy Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value Carrying Amount Estimated Fair Value Financial Assets: Cash and noninterest bearing deposits due from banks Level 1 $ 2,736 $ 2,736 $ 4,242 $ 4,242 Interest-bearing deposits due from banks Level 1 67,567 67,567 50,474 50,474 Short-term investments Level 1 711 711 710 710 Other Investments Level 2 3,500 3,500 3,500 3,500 Federal Reserve Bank stock Level 1 1,730 1,730 1,707 1,707 Federal Home Loan Bank stock Level 1 4,344 4,344 4,508 4,508 Loans receivable, net Level 3 458,794 464,551 501,477 511,648 Accrued interest receivable Level 1 1,894 1,894 2,453 2,453 Financial Liabilities: Demand deposits Level 1 $ 65,176 $ 65,176 $ 65,613 $ 65,613 Savings deposits Level 1 77,761 77,761 59,396 59,396 Money market deposits Level 1 42,401 42,401 52,890 52,890 NOW accounts Level 1 30,191 30,191 24,396 24,396 Time deposits Level 2 281,753 284,974 342,614 347,246 FHLB borrowings Level 2 50,000 52,448 50,000 52,645 Securities sold under repurchase agreements Level 2 7,000 7,683 7,000 8,173 Subordinated debt Level 2 8,248 8,248 8,248 8,248 Accrued interest payable Level 1 1,241 1,241 949 949 The Company assumes interest rate risk (the risk that general interest rate levels will change) as a result of its normal operations. As a result, the fair values of the Company s financial instruments will change when interest rate levels change and that change may be either favorable or unfavorable to the Company. Management attempts to match maturities of assets and liabilities to the extent believed necessary to minimize interest rate risk. However, borrowers with fixed rate obligations are less likely to prepay in a rising rate environment and more likely to prepay in a falling rate environment. Conversely, depositors who are receiving fixed rates are more likely to withdraw funds before maturity in a rising rate environment and less likely to do so in a falling rate environment. Management monitors rates and maturities of assets and liabilities and attempts to minimize interest rate risk by adjusting terms of new loans and deposits and by investing in securities with terms that mitigate the Company s overall interest rate risk. 70 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Off-balance-sheet instruments Loan commitments on which the committed interest rate is less than the current market rate were insignificant at December 31, 2012 and 2011. The estimated fair value of fee income on letters of credit at December 31, 2012 and 2011 was insignificant. Note 21. Restructuring Charges and Asset Disposals The Company recorded restructuring charges and asset disposals of $0.9 million and $3.0 million for the twelve months ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. These costs are included in restructuring charges and asset disposals expense in the Consolidated Statements of Operations. During 2011, the Company announced that it would be undertaking a series of initiatives that are designed to transform and enhance its operations in order to strengthen the Company s competitive position and return it to its goal of restored health and profitability. On March 3, 2011, the Company announced that it would consolidate four branches, effective June 2011, to reduce operating expenses. All customer accounts in the affected branches were transferred to nearby Patriot branches to minimize any inconvenience to customers. The consolidation of these branches resulted in an earnings charge of $1.8 million, which is comprised of lease termination expenses of $1.2 million, lease liabilities charges of $400,000, and severance payments of $200,000 to affected employees. In addition, there was a $600,000 write-off of leasehold improvements and other fixed assets for these branches that were closed. In order to further reduce operating expenses, the Company announced on May 16, 2011 that it would be executing a workforce reduction plan with employees in the back office operational areas. There were a total of eighteen employees affected by this reduction. This initiative resulted in an earnings charge of $600,000, which is comprised exclusively of severance payments to affected employees. On September 23, 2011, the Company subleased vacant office space at 900 Bedford Street, Stamford, CT, effective October 1, 2011 for a term of two years. On March 30, 2012 the Company announced that it would close the NYC branch, effective June 2012. During the first quarter, the Company executed a workforce reduction of back office personnel to further reduce operating expenses. There were twelve employees in total affected by this announcement. This initiative resulted in a restructuring charge of $495,207, which was comprised of $445,429 for severance expenses for the branch and back office personnel, asset disposals of $39,445 and $10,333 in lease liabilities. 71 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 On June 29, 2012, the Company announced that it would be consolidating three more branches in its continued effort to reduce operating expenses. Restructuring charges for the consolidation of these branches of $444,285 were comprised of $247,163 for severance expenses, lease liability charges of $140,292 and $56,830 in asset disposals. Restructuring reserves at December 31, 2012 for the restructuring activities taken in accordance with these initiatives are comprised of the following: Balance at December 31, 2011 Expenses Cash payments Non-cash charges Balance at December 31, 2012 Severance and benefit costs 2011 $ 64,132 $ 34,616 $ (98,402 ) $ (346 ) $ Lease liability costs 2011 317,808 (144,809 ) 172,999 Severance and benefit costs 2012 657,976 (657,976 ) Lease liability costs 2012 150,625 (61,689 ) (8,716 ) 80,220 Asset disposals 2012 96,275 (96,275 ) Total $ 381,940 $ 939,492 $ (818,067 ) $ (250,146 ) $ 253,219 The restructuring reserves at December 31, 2012 are included in accrued expenses and other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 72 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 22. Condensed Parent Company Only Financial Statements The following represent the condensed parent company only balance sheets as December 31, 2012 and 2011, and condensed statements of operations and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010. CONDENSED BALANCE SHEETS December 31, 2012 and 2011 2012 2011 ASSETS Cash and due from banks $ 2,382,695 $ 2,965,508 Investment in subsidiaries 56,601,461 56,881,301 Other assets 286,506 218,293 Total assets $ 59,270,662 $ 60,065,102 LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY Borrowings 8,248,000 8,248,000 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 1,454,864 1,267,442 Shareholders equity 49,567,798 50,549,660 Total liabilities and shareholders equity $ 59,270,662 $ 60,065,102 73 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 2012 2011 2010 Revenues Dividends from subsidiary bank $ $ $ Total revenue Expenses Interest on subordinated debt 308,797 294,631 297,209 Other expenses 699,646 319,070 312,950 Total expenses 1,008,443 613,701 610,159 Loss before equity in undistributed net loss of subsidiaries (1,008,443 ) (613,701 ) (610,159 ) Equity in undistributed net income (loss) of subsidiaries 472,279 (14,845,785 ) (14,788,786 ) Net loss $ (536,164 ) $ (15,459,486 ) $ (15,398,945 ) 74 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 CONDENSED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years Ended December 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009 2012 2011 2010 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Net loss $ (536,164 ) $ (15,459,486 ) $ (15,398,945 ) Adjustments to reconcile net loss to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities: Equity in undistributed (income) loss of subsidiaries (472,279 ) 14,845,785 14,788,786 Payment of fees to directors in common stock 306,421 Change in assets and liabilities: (Increase) decrease in other assets (68,213 ) 373,920 666,172 Increase (decrease) in accrued expenses and other liabilities 187,422 341,801 (447,579 ) Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities (582,813 ) 102,020 (391,566 ) Cash Flows from Investing Activities Net investment in bank subsidiary (43,000,000 ) Net cash used in investing activities (43,000,000 ) Cash Flows from Financing Activities Proceeds from issuance of common stock 46,233,779 Net cash provided by financing activities 46,233,779 Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (582,813 ) 102,020 2,842,213 Cash and cash equivalents Beginning 2,965,508 2,863,488 21,275 Ending $ 2,382,695 $ 2,965,508 $ 2,863,488 Supplemental Disclosures of Cash Flow Information Cash paid for interest $ $ $ Accrued dividends declared on common stock $ $ $ 75 Table of Contents PATRIOT NATIONAL BANCORP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARY NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, continued December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 Note 23. Subsequent Event Note 23. Subsequent Event On February 26, 2013, the Company announced the appointment of Kenneth T. Neilson as President and Chief Executive Officer of both the Company and the Bank effective March 18, 2013, pending regulatory approval. This is following the departure of Christopher Maher, who is resigning as President, CEO and director for personal reasons. Mr. Neilson has served as a director of Patriot since 2010. He is the retired President, Chairman and CEO of Hudson United Bank and Hudson United Bancorp where he served for 23 years. 76 
